OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES OF 
FINANCIAL SUPERVISION  
IN SINGAPORE  
Monetary Authority of Singapore 
April 2004 
(revised in September 2015)  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
 Contents  Page 
 
1 Introduction   1 
 
2 A Sound and Progressive Financial Services Sector   2 
 
3 Objectives of Supervision   4 
 
4 Principles of Good Supervision   12 
 
5 Oversight Functions of MAS  19 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
APRIL 2004 (revised in September 2015) 
OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES OF 
FINANCIAL SUPERVISION  
IN SINGAPORE 
 
1 
 
1  Introduction 
 
1 The mission of the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) is “to promote 
sustained and non -inflationary economic growth, and a sound and 
progressive financial services se ctor”.  To carry out this mission, MAS 
conducts exchange rate policy, manages the official foreign reserves, 
regulates and supervises the financial sector, and works with the industry to 
develop Singapore as an international financial centre. 
 
2 This documen t focuses on the supervisory aspect of MAS’ mandate, 
namely, to promote a sound and progressive financial services sector 
through regulation and supervision. 1  It sets out MAS’ objectives or desired 
outcomes of supervision, the functions it performs direct ly or facilitates to 
achieve these outcomes, and the principles that guide its supervisory 
approach. 
 
3 The schematic representation below illustrates how the various functions of 
MAS, based on a foundation of guiding principles, help to support the 
achievement of MAS’ objectives and mission  to promote a sound and 
progressive financial services sector. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
1  Regulation refers to the establishment of specific rules of behaviour and supervision 
means the more general monitoring of the behaviour of financial institutions, 
including compliance with rules and regulations.  When the term “supervision” is 
used in isolation in this note, we intend it to mean the broad oversight that includes 
both regulation and supervision.  
Resolution
Consumer Education *
PRINCIPLES
FUNCTIONS
MISSION
Desired outcomes 
we seek to promote
Supervision
Regulation
Enforcement
Authorisation
Surveillance
Corporate Governance *
Market Discipline *
Consumer Safety-Net *
3. Safe and efficient INFRASTRUCTURE
4. Fair, efficient and transparent MARKETS
5. Transparent and fair-dealing INTERMEDIARIES and OFFERORS
6. Well-informed and empowered CONSUMERS
2. Safe and sound INTERMEDIARIES
1. Stable financial SYSTEM
To promote a 
Sound and Progressive 
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR
Risk-Focused Stakeholder-Reliant
Disclosure-Based Supportive of Enterprise
Reason why we exist
Activities we perform
or  facilitate*
Beliefs that underpin 
our approach
2 
 
2  A Sound and Progressive Financial Services 
Sector 
 
1 A sound and progressive financial services sector is a vital part of any 
modern economy.  This is particularly so in the case of a small and open 
economy like Singapore.  Apart from its direct and significant contribution 
to gross domestic product, the financial services sector intermediates 
between savers and borrowers, allocates financial re sources efficiently, and 
thereby enhances economic growth and job creation.  Promoting a sound 
and progressive financial services sector is an integral part of ensuring the 
success and resilience of the Singapore economy. 
 
2 Confidence and stability are fund amental to a well -functioning financial 
system.  Only when there is confidence in the system would corporates and 
individuals transact in the financial markets to invest and to raise capital.  
Without confidence and stability, the economy's ability to mobi lize savings 
for economic use will be compromised.  
 
3 Experience has shown that, left to themselves, financial systems and 
institutions can be prone to bouts of instability and loss of confidence.  The 
social and economic costs of such instability can be si gnificant, as 
demonstrated by the economic fallout from  financial crises. Even advanced 
economies are not immune to financial crises or instability.  
 
4 MAS is concerned with both the stability of the financial system as a whole 
and the soundness of individu al institutions.  Working with other 
stakeholders, principally the boards and managers of financial institutions, 
MAS encourages the effective management and mitigation of risks taken by 
financial institutions. We aim to do so in a way that does not unnece ssarily 
hinder the competitiveness and dynamism of financial institutions, or the 
efficiency of financial markets.  While we seek to detect excessive risk -
taking and apply the brakes in a sensible manner, we must do so in a way 
that avoids moral hazard and does not smother innovation and enterprise.  
 
5 MAS seeks to promote a sound and progressive financial services sector 
through both financial supervision and developmental initiatives.  We 
supervise the banking and insurance industries, as well as the capit al 
markets.  At the same time, we work in partnership with the private sector 
to identify and implement strategies for developing Singapore as an 
international financial centre.  
3 
 
 
 
Are supervision and development compatible? 
 
Are MAS’ dual roles as supervi sor and promoter of the financial sector 
compatible?  On the surface, there appear to be inherent tensions between 
the two.  Supervision is concerned with the effective monitoring and 
mitigation of risks.  Promotion focuses on facilitating business innovat ion 
and enterprise, which often entails the taking of risk.   
 
But in a deeper sense, supervision and development are not incompatible.  
In fact, they are complementary.  A well -regulated and supervised financial 
services sector is not an end in itself.  W e promote financial soundness 
because it is a vital component of economic growth and development.  
Financial institutions come to Singapore to do business in large part 
because of the well -regulated, stable and sound financial system Singapore 
offers.  Sup ervision and development work hand in hand to promote a 
sound and progressive financial services sector. 
 
At the same time, MAS recognises that there could well be tensions 
between the supervisory and developmental roles in some situations.  This 
is why there is clear separation between these two functions within MAS.   
 
Officers involved in prudential or market conduct supervision are not 
charged with initiating and implementing developmental initiatives.  There 
are separate and dedicated departments withi n MAS for financial 
supervision and financial centre development.  Any potential tensions or 
trade-offs between supervision and development are resolved at the senior 
management level which has collective responsibility for MAS’ dual 
mandate.   
  
This arrangement has worked well in practice, as evidenced by the financial 
reforms launched since 1998 amidst challenging economic and financial 
conditions.  The reforms have helped promote greater competition, 
efficiency and growth in the financial sector without  compromising the 
safety and soundness of institutions or the resilience and stability of the 
system. 
 
Our experience has been that effective cooperation between the supervisor 
and developer is vital, so that our rules or regulations  take into account 
business efficacy and market realities without compromising industry best 
practices or undermining the basic principles of good supervision . We 
believe that the delicate balance between the supervisory and 
developmental roles is best achieved within one organi sation with a shared 
purpose rather than separate agencies with possibly conflicting goals. 
 
4 
 
3 Objectives of Supervision 
 
1 We believe that fulfilling our mission of a sound and progressive financial 
services sector requires achieving six distinct objectives .  The objectives or 
desired outcomes of MAS’ supervisory activities are: 
 
 a stable financial system; 
 
 safe and sound financial intermediaries; 
 
 safe and efficient financial infrastructure; 
 
 fair, efficient and transparent organised markets;  
 
 transparent and fair-dealing intermediaries and offerors; and 
 
 well-informed and empowered consumers. 
 
 
Objective 1 
Stable financial system 
 
2 Stability is fundamental to a well -functioning financial system.  It provides 
the basis for participants to trade in the financ ial markets and use the 
services of financial institutions with confidence.  Promoting a stable 
system is thus the overarching objective  of MAS’ financial supervision.  It 
requires MAS to meet the other five objectives with respect to 
intermediaries, infrastructure, markets, offerors and consumers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
Can and should MAS seek to prevent failure? 
 
Our desired outcome is financial stability.  But in seeking to promote and 
preserve stability in the financial system, we do not aim to prevent the 
failure of a ny financial institution.  Such a “zero failure” regime is neither 
feasible nor desirable. 
 
Risk is the life-blood of the financial system.  It is the business of financial 
institutions to intermediate risks and to take on risks.  Institutions can incur 
substantial losses if risks are not well -managed, or if risk events turn out to 
be more severe than anticipated.  Regulation or supervision cannot 
completely prevent losses without making it impossible for financial 
institutions to operate effectively. 
 
Instead, MAS seeks to reduce the risk and impact of a failure. MAS does 
this by requiring institutions to have sound risk management systems and 
adequate internal controls.  It also requires institutions to have appropriate 
contingency arrangements to address risks that may materialise  in stress 
conditions, and to  maintain prudent levels of capital to buffer against 
possible losses.  For key financial institutions, the contingency 
arrangements include recovery plans to restore financial strength and 
viability w hen the institution comes under severe  stress. With these 
measures, we seek to reduce the risk of a failure.  But we cannot and should 
not guarantee the soundness of individual financial institutions. 
 
This is especially true in Singapore, where most finan cial institutions, 
banks in particular, operate as branches of organisations incorporated in 
other jurisdictions.  Their global operations are influenced by factors 
beyond MAS’ control.  Our supervision of these institutions is limited to 
their operations in Singapore, even though the risks to their viability may 
arise from any part of their global network.  While MAS has a rigorous 
admission policy that seeks to allow only well -managed and reputable 
institutions to operate in Singapore, it is difficult for  us to detect and 
resolve problems or mishaps occurring in the global operations of these 
institutions.  With respect to locally -incorporated institutions, MAS has 
greater supervisory influence.  Even so, given the growing scope and 
complexity of financial  business, it is impossible for MAS to prevent 
financial distress or collapse in all circumstances. 
 
Even if it were possible to prevent failure in all instances, it would be 
undesirable to seek to do so.  Any such supervisory and regulatory regime 
would b e excessively burdensome for financial institutions and severely 
undermine their competitiveness, innovation and enterprise.  This would be 
inconsistent with MAS’ mission of promoting a progressive financial 
services sector. 
6 
 
  
A “zero-failure” regime would  also be inconsistent with the principle that 
owners and managers of institutions, together with consumers, must be 
responsible for their own actions.  Considerable moral hazard would arise if 
consumers and market participants believed that no institution would ever 
be allowed to collapse or go out of business, or no investor would lose his 
savings through imprudent investment.  The incentive for boards of 
directors and managers to take due care in managing the risks of institutions 
under their charge would  be eroded.  The best defence against financial 
instability is to maximise the incentives for boards, management and 
market participants to identify and pre -empt problems rather than provide 
an official guarantee against failure of any single institution. 
 
 
 
Objective 2 
Safe and sound financial intermediaries 
 
3 The focus of much of MAS’ regulation and supervision is on the safety and 
soundness of financial intermediaries such as banks, insurance companies, 
and broker-dealer and fund management firms.  There are two reasons for 
this.   
 
4 Firstly, the distress or collapse of key financial institutions, especially large 
banks, can have potentially damaging consequences for systemic stability 
by transmitting problems from one institution to another or undermining 
confidence in general.  Secondly, depositors, policyholders and retail 
investors are usually not in a position to make fully informed judgments 
about the risks facing the institutions with which they enter into financial 
contracts.  This information asymme try can be reduced through greater 
disclosure, but it cannot be eliminated entirely.  MAS, therefore, has a role 
in actively encouraging financial institutions to identify, monitor and 
mitigate the risks facing them.  For key financial institutions, this extends to 
the development and ongoing review of robust and credible recovery and 
resolution plans which take into account the specific cir cumstances of the 
institution. MAS assesses the adequacy of the se financial institutions’  
recovery and resolution plan s and seeks improvements if deficiencies are 
identified. In the case of financial institutions headquartered in other 
jurisdictions, MAS will coordinate with the relevant supervisors and 
authorities from those jurisdictions wherever possible on these asses sments 
and follow-up actions. 
 
7 
 
5 At the same time as it supervises the safety and soundness of financial 
institutions, MAS also requires institutions to have in place robust systems 
and procedures to combat money laundering and terrorism financing  
(ML/TF).  This is because financial institutions are vulnerable to abuse for 
criminal purposes, such as money laundering and terrorism financing.  
Besides contributing to the international effort to curb  crimes that generate 
illegal proceeds or support  terrorism activities, MAS’ supervision in this 
regard seeks to detect, deter and prevent abuses that pose significant legal 
and reputational risks to the institutions , which could also impact on their 
safety and soundness,  and affect Singapore’s standing as an interna tional 
financial centre.   
 
 
What is MAS’ role in combating money laundering and terrorism 
financing?  
 
As an international financial centre, Singapore actively supports global 
efforts to combat ML/TF as well as  proliferation financing. Singapore has 
zero tolerance for the use of its financial system as a conduit or sanctuary 
for illicit fund s. Singapore is firmly committed to detect, deter and prevent 
illegal financial activities.  
 
Singapore was one of the first jurisdictions in Asia to join the Financial  
Action Task Force (FATF), the global standard setting body for fighting 
ML/TF, and a founding member of the Asia /Pacific Group on Money 
Laundering.  In addition, MAS participates in the Anti -Money 
Laundering/Countering the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT)  Expert 
Group under the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision that develops 
international standards in this area. 
 
MAS’ role in Singapore’s AML/CFT regime pertains to four key areas: 
strict regulation, rigorous supervision, effective enforcement, and cros s-
border co-operation. 
 
Regulation 
All financial institutions in Singapore are required to put in place strong 
AML/CFT controls and conduct rigorous checks.  This includes customer 
due diligence, regular account reviews, and monitoring and reporting any 
suspicious transactions. MAS undertakes regular reviews to identify 
emerging risks and strengthen its AML/CFT regime. The latest review 
resulted in MAS issuing an enhanced set of AML/CFT regulatory notices in 
April 2015.  This was accompanied by a set of AML/ CFT guidelines to 
further clarify MAS’ expectations.  
 
 
 
8 
 
Supervision 
MAS determines whether financial institutions have adequate AML/CFT 
controls and are compliant with our regulations and requirements .  This is 
done through regular inspections, off -site r eviews and by leveraging on 
audits conducted by internal and external auditors.  The frequency and 
scope of MAS’ AML/CFT inspections are based on our assessment of each 
institution’s ML/TF risks, regardless of the size of the institution. 
 
Following each i nspection, MAS issues a detailed report on any control 
gaps and weaknesses identified and will instruct the financial institution to 
undertake remedial measures within a specified timeframe.  For a foreign 
financial institution operating in Singapore, MAS also shares its inspection 
reports with the institution’s head office and home regulator, to promote 
more effective remediation.  
 
In addition, MAS requires the auditors of the financial institutions to verify 
the remediation measures undertaken by the ins titutions and report to MAS 
on the adequacy of the rectifications made. 
 
Enforcement 
MAS takes firm and appropriate enforcement actions against financial 
institutions that breach our AML/CFT regulations.  Enforcement actions 
include formal warnings, reprim ands, restrictions on operations, financial 
penalties and revocation of licences. 
 
Cross-border Co-operation 
Recognising the cross -border nature of ML/TF offences, relevant agencies 
in Singapore, such as the Suspicious Transaction Reporting Office 
(Singapore’s Financial Intelligence Unit), law enforcement agencies (e.g. 
Commercial Affairs Department) and the Attorney -General’s Chambers 
(Singapore’s central authority for mutual legal assistance) have established 
channels to cooperate with foreign counterpart s and assist in investigations. 
MAS also maintains channels to cooperate with our foreign supervisors on 
AML/CFT matters. These include facilitating effective consolidated 
supervision of financial institutions, exchanging supervisory information 
including sharing AML/CFT inspection reports and fit and proper 
assessments, supporting on-site AML/CFT inspections by home supervisors 
as well as participating in and hosting supervisory colleges.   
 
MAS continually strengthens its AML/CFT regulations and superviso ry 
framework to keep pace with emerging risks and evolving market 
developments as part of our commitment to enforce  a robust regulatory and 
supervisory AML/CFT regime in Singapore.   
 
 
 
9 
 
     Objective 3 
Safe and efficient financial infrastructure  
 
6 Financial infrastructure refers to the platforms that provide the services and 
facilities underpinning financial market activities, such as exchanges, 
clearing houses, and payment and settlement systems.2 
 
7 These platforms are important nodes in the financial sys tem.  Their failure 
may amplify systemic risks by seizing up financial flows, undermining the 
fulfilment of obligations and transmitting shocks from one institution to 
another.  The safe operation of financial infrastructure , including under 
stress conditi ons, is therefore essential for preserving stability in the 
financial system. These platforms  are therefore expected  to have 
contingency arrangements to help  ensure that  the markets they serve 
continue to function effectively. 
 
8 Financial infrastructure sho uld also be efficient in helping to reduce 
friction, lower costs, and maximise the economic benefits of financial 
intermediation.  Improvements to the safety and reliability of financial 
infrastructure must be judiciously balanced against the costs of doing so.  
 
 
Objective 4 
Fair, efficient and transparent organised markets  
 
9 Confidence in the financial system and effective intermediation of financial 
flows require that capital markets be fair, efficient and transparent. 
 
10 A fair market is characterised by proper trading practices, fair access to 
market facilities and information, and structures that do not tilt the playing 
field in favour of some market users over others.  As part of its mandate, 
MAS seeks to deter, detect and penalise market rigging, marke t 
manipulation, insider trading, fraud, deceit and other unfair trading conduct. 
 
11 Price formation and discovery are intrinsic to any well -functioning market 
that matches buyers and sellers.  An efficient market is one where this 
process is reliable and unh indered.  This requires material information 
likely to affect market prices to be disseminated in a timely and organised 
manner. 
 
 
 
                                           
2   Clearing is broadly concerned with the establishment and risk management of 
contractual obligations while settlement is concerned with the discharge of obligations. 
10 
 
12 Information asymmetries are at the root of most market inefficiencies and 
misconduct.  A transparent market is one where inf ormation about trading 
is made publicly available on a real -time basis.  Pre-trade information, such 
as bids and offers, should be made available to enable investors to know 
whether they can deal and at what prices.  Post -trade information on 
executed trades should be similarly publicised to reflect the market price of 
concluded transactions. 
 
 
Objective 5 
Transparent and fair-dealing intermediaries and offerors 
 
13 MAS’ market conduct supervision focuses on promoting transparency and 
fair-dealing by financial  institutions and offerors in the conduct of their 
business with customers.  This involves prescribing disclosure 
requirements, conducting fit and proper tests to promote honesty and 
integrity among financial institutions and their representatives, setting  
competency requirements for those providing financial services in the 
capital markets, and instilling fair business practices in the marketing and 
distribution of financial services and products. 
 
14 Market intermediaries are expected to uphold high professi onal standards 
when dealing with customers.  MAS penalises, through criminal and civil 
sanctions, instances of market misconduct (e.g. front running, insider 
trading, market rigging, market manipulation and misleading disclosure).  
Offerors are required to  make full, prompt and continuing disclosure of 
material information, to help ensure market transparency and equip 
investors with the necessary knowledge to make informed decisions.  
 
15 While MAS expects financial institutions to adopt fair business practice s 
and high standards of disclosure when dealing with consumers, matters 
such as commercial service standards and pricing of products and services 
are normally outside MAS’ purview.  But institutions should provide 
consumers with the necessary information o n these matters to enable them 
to make well-informed decisions.     
 
 
Objective 6 
Well-informed and empowered consumers 
 
16 Consumers bear the principal responsibility for protecting their own 
interests.  They should exercise due care in their selection of fi nancial 
products and service providers.  MAS does not and cannot protect 
consumers from the risk that their investments will not deliver anticipated 
returns.   
11 
 
 
17 MAS does play a role, however, in helping to ensure that consumers are 
well-informed and empowered to assume principal responsibility for their 
own protection.  MAS seeks to address risks to consumers stemming from 
insufficient, false or misleading disclosure, conflicts of interest, mis -selling 
and mis-representation. 
 
18 MAS requires financial institu tions and offerors of investments to make 
full, prompt and accurate disclosure of material information to consumers.  
But a disclosure -based regime cannot work if consumers do not know how 
to make good use of the information disclosed to them.  Consumer 
education helps to empower consumers to make informed choices.  MAS 
works with other public sector agencies and industry associations in helping 
to equip consumers with basic money management, financial planning and 
investment skills.  
 
19 It is also important that in the event of market misconduct or improper 
behaviour, consumers have recourse to an impartial and efficient dispute 
resolution mechanism.  MAS facilitates the setting up of fair, efficient and 
affordable industry dispute resolution mechanisms as al ternatives to 
resolutions through court litigation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
4 Principles of Good Supervision 
 
1 MAS is guided by twelve key principles which collectively characterise our 
supervisory approach as one that is risk-focused, stakeholder-reliant, 
disclosure-based and supportive of enterprise. 
 
Risk-Focused 
 
    Principle 1 
 Emphasise risk-focused supervision rather than one-size-
fits-all regulation 
 
2 Our emphasis is on risk -focused supervision, rather than prescriptive one -
size-fits-all rules.  The latter approach , whereby a supervisor prescribes 
activities and risks that institutions can and cannot take, is increasingly 
ineffective in a rapidly changing environment, and also unnecessarily 
restrictive for the stronger institutions.  With risk -focused supervision, 
MAS evaluates the risk profile of an institution, taking into account the 
quality of the institution’s internal risk management systems and processes.  
This approach allows us to give greater business latitude to well -managed 
institutions while retaining hi gher requirements or tighter restrictions for 
weaker ones. 
 
 
Principle 2 
Assess the adequacy of an institution’s risk management 
in the context of its risk and business profiles  
 
3 MAS takes a proportionate approach to assessing an institution’s risks.  
Rather than having a fixed view of what constitutes an acceptable level of 
business risks or risk management standards,  MAS assesses whether risk 
management systems, internal controls, and contingency arrangements  are 
commensurate with the institution’s risk and business profiles.  Institutions 
engaging in complex financial businesses must be able to demonstrate that 
their risk management capabilities match their risk appetite and operations, 
while institutions engaging in less complex or risky financial activi ties may 
find simpler risk management processes adequate for their purpose. Key 
financial institutions  are therefore expected to  have effective recovery 
measures to deal with situations of severe stress.   
 
 
 
13 
 
Principle 3 
Allocate scarce supervisory resources according to impact 
and risks 
 
4 We allocate supervisory resources among financial institutions according to 
the potential impact they would have on Singapore’s financial system, 
economy and reputation in the event of a significant mishap (e.g. financial 
failure, and prolonged disruption  of business operations) , and also the 
likelihood of these significant mishaps occurring.  Institutions are placed in 
distinct supervisory categories which are differentiated in terms of the scope 
and intensity of our super vision.  More resources are channelled towards 
supervising systemically-important institutions and institutions with higher 
risk profiles. 
 
5 In the case of AML/CFT supervision, more resources are allocated to 
financial institutions posing high er ML/TF risk, notwithstanding that they 
may be of lower systemic importance.    
 
 
Principle 4 
Ensure institutions are supervised on an integrated 
(across industry) and consolidated (across geography) 
basis 
 
6 As the home supervisor of local financial groups, MAS takes an  integrated 
supervisory approach, evaluating them on a whole -of-group basis across 
their banking, insurance and securities activities.  We also supervise these 
financial groups on a consolidated basis, taking into account both their 
Singapore and overseas operations.  
 
7 For foreign banks and insurance companies operating in Singapore, we 
ensure that they are subject to consolidated supervision by their home 
regulators. For these institutions, MAS cooperates and shares information 
with foreign supervisors thr ough bilateral exchanges and supervisory 
colleges for effective cross -border supervision and handling of crises.  MAS 
incorporates home supervisor information in setting supervisory plans for 
the relevant Singapore operations.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
Principle 5 
Maintain high standards in financial supervision, 
including observing international standards and best 
practices 
 
8 MAS continually strives to maintain high standards in financial supervision, 
benchmarking itself against international standards and best practices.  A s 
an international financial centre with a strong stake in global financial 
stability, MAS participates actively in regional and international initiatives 
to enhance regulatory standards and supervisory training. 
 
Principle 6  
Seek to reduce the risk and impact of failure rather than 
prevent the failure of any institution 
 
9 MAS does not aim to prevent all failures.  We require financial institutions 
to observe prudential standards, such as appropriate capitalisation, liquidity 
and exposure limits.  We have t he power to intervene if we believe that the 
interests of depositors, policyholders or investors are at risk.  But we cannot 
(due to the complexity of financial activities) and should not (due to moral 
hazard and the undesirable consequences of excessive r egulatory burden) 
guarantee the soundness of financial institutions.  
 
10 Consumers should recognise that there are risks involved in dealing with 
financial institutions.  One challenge that MAS faces, like other regulators, 
is to educate the public about thi s reality and to manage their expectations.  
Deposit insurance and policy owners’ protection schemes will make explicit 
the level of protection available to depositors and policy owners.  They will 
also help to make consumers realise that risks are inheren t in financial 
transactions. 
 
11 While we cannot prevent failures, we are conscious of the systemic impact 
that failures can have and the damage they can do to consumers and 
Singapore’s reputation as a financial centre.  MAS will seek to reduce the 
risk of fa ilure of institutions through increased supervision where it is 
appropriate and effective. We also require key financial institutions to draw 
up recovery plans that set out options for early action to restore long -term 
viability.  In the case where increas ed supervision is ineffective, we will 
take measures to limit the impact of a failure. These measures include an 
effective resolution regime that provides for a broad range of powers and 
tools to resolve a non -viable financial institution in an orderly man ner that 
protects the interests of depositors, policy owners and investors; and putting 
in place an ongoing process for resolution planning for key financial 
institutions. For financial institutions with cross -border operations, MAS 
15 
 
will also work with for eign resolution authorities toward s a coordinated 
resolution where such action takes into account MAS’ aim of maintaining 
financial stability.  
 
  
16 
 
Stakeholder-Reliant 
Principle 7 
 Place principal responsibility for risk oversight on the 
institution’s board and management 
 
12 The primary responsibility for the prudential soundness and professional 
market conduct of a financial institution lies with its board of directors and 
senior management.  Our supervisory approach seeks to reinforce the 
responsibility of the board and management to deal fairly with customers, 
ensure compliance with regulatory standards, and maintain adequate risk 
oversight of its business activities.   By working to encourage best practices 
by boards and management, we minimise the need to interfere with 
institutions’ business decisions. 
 
 
Principle 8 
 Leverage on relevant stakeholders, professionals, industry 
associations and other agencies 
 
13 MAS is not the only party interested in the integrity, safety and soundness 
of financial institution s.  There are other stakeholders such as their 
shareholders, creditors, counterparties, depositors, policyholders and home 
supervisors who also have an interest in the institutions’ continued financial 
health and stability.  Likewise, professionals such as  external auditors, 
internal auditors and actuaries, as well as credit rating agencies, are 
specialists in assessing the risks inherent in the institutions and the 
adequacy of risk management and internal control systems.  In addition, 
many financial insti tutions here are members of their respective industry 
associations.   
 
14 MAS leverages on these relationships and the work of some of these 
parties.  We interact and work closely with some of them, including the 
home supervisors, financial infrastructure per forming a frontline regulatory 
role, auditors and industry associations, to complement our own supervision  
of the institutions.  MAS also works in cooperation with other agencies, 
such as the Council on Corporate Disclosure and Governance, the Ministry 
of Finance, and the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority , to 
strengthen corporate governance and disclosure standards.    
 
17 
 
Disclosure-Based 
 
Principle 9 
 Rely on timely, accurate and adequate disclosure by 
institutions rather than merit-based regulation of 
products to protect consumers 
 
15 MAS has moved from prescriptive, merit -based regulation to a more 
disclosure-based regime.  Under the merit -based regime, the regulator 
assesses the suitability of a product before it is allowed to be introduced in 
the marketplace.  Under a disclosure -based regime, the consumer makes 
well-informed decisions when purchasing financial products and services 
based on material information being made available to the consumer.  A 
disclosure-based regime encourages innovation  and facilitates the 
development of a more sophisticated body of consumers.  The role of MAS 
is therefore to put in a place a regulatory framework that facilitates timely, 
accurate and meaningful disclosure of material information that consumers 
could reasonably rely on in making financial decisions.   
 
 
Principle 10 
 Empower consumers to assess and assume for themselves 
the financial risks of their financial decisions 
 
16 A disclosure-based regime is meaningless if consumers do not know how to 
make use of dis closed information in making financial decisions.  
Consumers should understand the nature of different financial products and 
the considerations that they should look out for in making their financial 
decisions.  MAS works in partnership with other public sector agencies and 
industry bodies on consumer education to facilitate this. 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
Supportive of Enterprise 
 
Principle 11 
 Give due regard to competitiveness, business efficiency 
and innovation 
 
17 MAS seeks to undertake supervision in a way that does not unn ecessarily 
impair the competitiveness and dynamism of individual institutions and 
Singapore’s financial services sector.  We take into account the business 
and operational concerns of the institutions and industry, so as not to hinder 
enterprise and innova tion as long as the se are accompanied by good 
governance and risk management, and supported by sensible, sustainable, 
long-term strategies .  In our dealings with institutions, we seek to be 
professional and to respond to their requests in a timely manner. 
 
 
Principle 12 
 Adopt a consultative approach to regulating the industry 
 
18 MAS adopts a consultative approach to regulating the industry.  We 
actively seek feedback from market practitioners and the public, so as to 
help us develop regulations that take int o account market realities and 
industry practices.  Consultation also helps to pre -empt implementation 
problems, minimise unintended consequences, and foster better industry 
understanding and support.  In the end, it is the combined efforts of MAS 
and the industry that contribute to financial stability and resilience while 
promoting enterprise and innovation. 
19 
 
5 Oversight Functions of MAS 
 
1 MAS performs six distinct oversight functions to achieve its objectives, 
namely regulation, authorisation, supervision, surveillance, enforcement 
and resolution.   
 
2 But MAS’ oversight in itself is insufficient for achieving the mission of a 
sound and progressive financial services sector.  Sound corporate 
governance, effective market discipline , a high level of consumer 
education and a basic consumer safety-net are also necessary.  These are 
functions principally carried out by other entities, with MAS playing a 
facilitating role. 
 
 
Regulation 
3 As a regulator, MAS determines the scope of financial services activities 
that sh ould be regulated, and sets the rules and standards governing the 
behaviour of financial markets and institutions.  MAS’ prudential regulation 
focuses on the safety and soundness of financial institutions, seeking to 
safeguard the value of the assets that underpin the ability of these 
institutions to fulfil their financial contracts, such as bank deposits and 
insurance policies.  It involves setting risk -based capital and prudential 
requirements.  MAS’ market conduct regulation focuses on how financial 
firms and their representatives carry out business dealings with consumers, 
and seeks to promote fair dealing.  It involves setting requirements and 
standards for sound business conduct practices . MAS’ AML/CFT 
regulations focus on protecting the integrity of t he financial sector by 
preventing it from being used as a conduit for illicit funds  and financing of 
terrorism.  It involves setting regulations relating to customer due diligence, 
record keeping , ongoing monitoring  and reporting of suspicious 
transactions, amongst others. 
 
 
Authorisation 
4 MAS is the “gatekeeper” for institutions that wish to offer financial services 
in Singapore.  MAS assesses these institutions to ensure that they satisfy the 
necessary authorisation or licensing criteria.  These include ha ving the 
relevant track record, adequate financial resources and sound operational 
processes to ensure orderly and fair conduct of business.  MAS also 
assesses whether financial institutions and their representatives are of sound 
20 
 
repute, and meet the fit a nd proper criteria to conduct regulated activities.  
Offerors seeking to raise funds in the capital markets are also required to 
register prospectuses that provide full and fair disclosure of material 
information to potential investors. 
 
 
Supervision 
5 MAS i s responsible for the prudential and AML/CFT supervision of 
financial institutions.  We seek to have a good understanding of an 
institution’s business to identify potential risks that may impact the 
reputation, safety, and soundness  of the institution and to assess the 
suitability of various supervisory actions. We rely on a variety of 
supervisory tools to carry out this work.  These include on -site inspections 
as well as continuous off -site supervision such as holding regular meetings 
with the institutions , reviewing audit reports on the institutions and 
regulatory returns, and monitoring key indicators and business 
developments. 
 
6 MAS also supervises the conduct of business by financial institutions and 
their representatives, to ensure that they adhere to s ound market conduct 
practices, including furnishing adequate information about their products, 
and providing customers with appropriate advice to purchase products that 
suit the customers’ needs and risk appetite. 
 
 
Surveillance 
7 MAS undertakes various kind s of financial surveillance.  From the 
prudential perspective, we seek to identify non -sustainable trends and 
potential vulnerabilities in the financial system, as well as transmission 
linkages within the system that could impair the safety and soundness o f 
financial institutions.  From the market conduct perspective, we monitor the 
efficiency and fairness of market operations, seek to identify market 
misconduct, and assess financial institutions’ compliance with market 
conduct rules.  From the AML/CFT pers pective, we assess the ML/TF risk 
faced by financial institutions due to their business  models and  practices, 
products and services offered , and use of new technologies.   In addition, 
MAS requires financial institutions to consider the results of the  National 
Risk Assessment as part of  their enterprise -wide ML/ TF risk assessment  
and management. 
 
 
21 
 
Enforcement 
8 MAS is empowered to take action against those institutions and individuals 
who breach prudential , AML/CFT and market conduct requirements.  
Where there  is a regulatory breach, MAS may impose administrative and 
financial sanctions or refer the matter to law enforcement or prosecution  
authorities.  We also investigate and initiate civil penalty actions against 
those who engage in market misconduct in the capital markets. 
 
Resolution 
9 MAS is responsible for exercising resolution powers over financial 
institutions.  MAS has a broad range of powers and resolution tools to 
maintain financial stability , address serious problems in a financial 
institution that threaten its viability , and resolve an institution that is no 
longer viable.  MAS seeks to resolve non -viable3 institutions in an orderly 
manner that protects the interests of depositors, policy owners  and 
investors, and ensure timely return of segregated client assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
3 Non-viable refers both to a financial institution which is no longer viable, or likely to be 
no longer viable, and has no reasonable prospect of becoming viable. 
 
What is MAS’ role in the event of a failure? 
 
The failure of a financial institution can give rise to large negative 
consequences for the financial system  and the real econ omy.  In the 
absence of robust resolution tools, some regulators had to bail out 
failing financial institutions or depend on corporate bankruptcy 
proceedings to deal with the failures during the recent crisis. Both 
solutions can be costly.  A disorderly an d long drawn bankruptcy can 
severely disrupt financial markets; while a bail -out will heighten moral 
hazard risks and incur large costs that are ultimately borne by the public.  
 
MAS is responsible for exercising resolution powers over financial 
institutions in Singapore.  We have in place a wide range of resolution 
powers and tools to facilitate various strategies for resolving non-viable 
financial institutions.   For example, the resolution regime empowers 
MAS to take a variety of measures, including to  wind up, tak e control 
of, transfer the business/ownership of, or restructure the share capital of 
a distressed bank , as well as to establish a bridge institution .  MAS has 
also put in place safety -nets such as the Deposit Insurance and Policy 
Owners’ Protection schemes, to protect depositors and insurance policy 
owners.   
22 
 
 
 
Corporate Governance 
10 The primary responsibility to oversee and manage the risks arising from an 
institution’s activities, as well as to ensure compliance with regulatory 
standards and requirements rests with the institut ion’s board of directors 
and senior management.  MAS therefore seeks to promote effective and 
sound corporate governance practices by institutions.  MAS also works with 
other agencies in promoting sound corporate governance practices by listed 
companies. 
 
The Singapore Deposit Insurance Corporation Limited administers 
these schemes and coordinates with MAS to make payment of 
compensation to insured depositors or policy owners  should a scheme 
member fails.  
 
If a financial institution  fails, MAS seeks to achieve an orderly 
resolution, such that financial stability and  the continuity of 
systemically important financial services, and  financial infrastructure , 
are preserved.  In determining the appropriate resolution strategy, MAS 
will also seek to avoid unnecessary destruction of value and minimise 
the overall costs of resolution. As far as possible, private sector 
solutions will be considered first.  In the absence of viable private 
sector alte rnatives, and publicly -assisted resolution strategies are 
needed, the use of public funds will be accompanied by strict 
conditions, to minimise the risk of moral hazard. 
  
As the application of resolution powers to individual components of a 
cross-border financial group could impact the group as a whole and the 
financial stability of other jurisdictions, MAS will consider the impact 
of its resolution actions on financial stability in other jurisdictions, and 
work with foreign resolution authorities wherever  possible, towards a 
coordinated resolution where such action takes into account MAS’ aim 
of maintaining financial stability.  This includes notifying the relevant 
foreign resolution authority before taking a resolution action, as far as 
possible.  MAS is i nvolved, as both home and host authority, in cross -
border crisis management group and supervisory college meetings, 
which provide a platform for supervisors and resolution authorities  
from the different jurisdictions  to coordinate the development of group 
recovery and resolution plans.  
 
23 
 
Market Discipline 
11 MAS promotes timely, adequate and accurate disclosure by financial 
institutions and offerors to allow consumers and investors to make informed 
decisions about the products they purchase or invest in.  A transparent 
market fosters market d iscipline.  We also encourage markets to perform 
effective self -regulatory functions.  In addition, MAS seeks to foster 
effective market discipline by facilitating the establishment of dispute 
resolution schemes. 
 
 
Consumer Education 
12 The liberalisation of financial markets and shift towards a disclosure -based 
regime mean that consumers are faced with a growing array of financial 
products and services.  Consumers need to understand the implications of 
the different financial contracts they enter into when pu rchasing or 
investing in financial products and services in order to choose wisely.  
Under the MoneySENSE national financial education programme, MAS 
acts as a catalyst for consumer education in Singapore by working closely 
with industry associations, cons umer groups and other public sector 
organisations to identify the main areas of focus for consumer education 
efforts and to encourage greater collaboration between the private and 
public sectors. 
 
 
Consumer Safety-Net 
13 MAS facilitates the establishment of v arious safety-net schemes such as the 
Deposit Insurance Scheme and the Policy owners’ Protection Scheme.  
Both are privately funded by the participating banks and insurance 
companies, respectively.  The establishment of such safety-net schemes is 
important given that MAS cannot prevent all failures.  Consumers can then 
know exactly how much of their money will be fully protected or whether 
their losses arising from insured perils will be compensated if an institution 
fails.  This will help to strengthen mar ket discipline and dispel any public 
misperception of a government guarantee in the event of a failure.  MAS 
requires approved exchanges to maintain a fidelity fund to give  a certain 
level of protection to investors trading on these exchanges  against acts of 
defalcation and default on the part of the broker/dealers. 
 
