MANAGEMENT OF MONEY
LAUNDERING (“ML”),
TERRORISM FINANCING (“TF”)
AND SANCTIONS RISKS FROM
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS
WITH A NEXUS TO DIGITAL
ASSETS
INDUSTRY PERSPECTIVES ON BEST PRACTICES
July 2023
ahahBAERS reereee
iis
aee
ii
73
i*34aomaue7 ;=}veeeatis
>
Aosta.e-o2i.)rsaee5aa : C.F"a-¢85'7|iaes
TPE
BakPerePrrarx-
\oN
. w
Vedbeta.
btssnssocn

CONTENTS
1. Introduction and Objectives
A. Background
B. ML/TF Risk Considerations
C. Customer Nexus — Inherent Risks
Onboarding and Ongoing Due Diligence
A. Digital Payment Token Service Providers
B. Legal Entities
C. Natural Persons
Ongoing Monitoring
A. Fiat Currency Accounts
B. Cryptocurrency Accounts
Case Studies
Enhanced Due Diligence for DPTSP
Case Study 1 — Onboarding
SOW Corroboration for Natural Person
Case Study 2 — Onboarding
Case Study 3 — Event Trigger Review
Case Study 4 — Event Trigger Review
Travel Rule Compliance: Hosted & Unhosted Wallets
Case Study 5 — Ongoing Monitoring
OoOOKRW
13
14
15
15
17
18
18
19
20
21
22

CONTENTS
4. Case Studies (cont’d)
Case Study 6 — Holistic Due Diligence
Case Study 7 — On-Chain Screening Assessment
o. Annexes
A. On-chain Screening
B. Definitions
C. Working Group Members and Other Contributors
23
24
26
26
2/
28

Introduction and Objectives
In August 2022, a Digital Assets Risk Management Group was established under the AML/CFT Industry
Partnership (“ACIP”) including representatives from the banks (OCBC, SCB, HSBC, JP Morgan, DBS,
UOB, Citibank, Maybank), the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”), the Commercial Affairs
Department (“CAD”) and Ernst & Young ("EY").
The objective of the Digital Assets Risk Management Group was to define and share best practices on the
management of Money Laundering (“ML”), Terrorism Financing (“TF”), and Sanctions risks arising from
customer relationships with a nexus to digital assets.
This paper provides Financial Institutions (“Fls’) with a foundational framework to advance understanding
and management of ML/TF, and Sanctions risks arising from customer relationships with nexus to digital
assets in the Singapore context by
(a) presenting a high-level overview on the classes of digital assets and proposing risk factors for
assessing relevance of digital assets from the AML/CFT perspective;
(b) identifying the possible types of customer nexus to digital assets such as cryptocurrencies and
analysing the underlying risk profiles; and
(c) clarifying risk management objectives and assessing incremental risk management capabilities
required to manage these associated risks.

Background
History of Digital Assets
Digital assets originated with the emergence of the blockchain technology, a decentralised ledger that
provided the foundations for the launch of the cryptocurrency “Bitcoin” in 2009 by a person or group of
people using the pseudonym ‘Satoshi Nakamoto’.
Since then, the digital assets landscape has evolved to encompass not just digital payment tokens, but
also other non-payment digital assets such as non-fungible tokens.
Digital assets are becoming more widely accepted and the digital assets ecosystem has given rise to new
types of customers and customer transactions. Some of these could suffer from light Know-Your-Customer
(“KYC”) controls, ineffective triggers for enhanced due diligence and/or lack of ongoing customer due
diligence, making it easier for criminals to facilitate ML/TF or Sanctions evasion.
It is critical for Fls to strengthen their risk management frameworks to address any incremental ML/TF and
Sanctions risks associated with these digital assets.
For the purpose of this paper, the term ‘digital asset’ refers to
Definition of Digital an asset whose ownership is represented in a digital or
Assets computerised form. It does not include the _ digital
representation of fiat currencies’.
Types of Digital Assets
Based on the Working Group’s research, the following are identified as the current major types of digital
assets:
Digital payment tokens?
¢ Cryptocurrencies: Digital currency in which transactions are verified and records are maintained by a
decentralised system using cryptography, rather than by a centralised authority
« Stablecoins: A subset of crypto-assets that aim to maintain a stable value relative to a specified asset
(typically a unit of fiat currency or commodity) or a pool/basket of assets. They can be transferred either
on a peer-to-peer (“P2P”) basis using private crypto wallets or through third-party service providers?
(continues on next page)
1Please refer to Annex B for the definition used for the purposes of this paper
2Per Payment Services Act (“PSA”) definition. Please refer to Annex B for the full definition
3Per definition by Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) 4

Background
Types of Digital Assets (Cont’d)
Other digital assets
Transferrable gaming/streaming credits: Digital assets which are sold in exchange for money, and
can be transferred or spent on goods and services
Limited Purpose Digital Payment Tokens*: Any digital representation of value that are non-
refundable, non-transferrable, or non-exchangeable for money and used only for certain limited
purposes (e.g., closed loop virtual gaming tokens)
Central Bank Digital Currencies (“CBDCs”): Digital payment instrument, denominated in the national
unit of account, that is the direct liability of the central bank®
Digital Capital Markets Products (“DCMPs”) tokens: On-chain representations of traditional capital
markets products® that exist off-chain
Non-Fungible Tokens (“NFTs”): Digital assets with distinct and unique features that are verified and
secured by blockchain technology, used to represent either digitally native items (e.g., Metaverse land)
or physical items that exist in the real world’ (e.g., art)
4Per PSA definition. Please refer to Annex B for the full definition
5Per definition used in MAS Project Orchid Whitepaper
6Per Securities and Futures Act (“SFA”) definition. Please refer to Annex B for the full definition
Definition reference from ‘Reply to Parliamentary Question on Regulation of NFT Activities’ 5

ML/TF Risk Considerations
Relevance of ML/TF and Sanctions Risks
To assess whether a digital asset needs to be targeted for additional AML/CFT controls, Fls would need to
consider whether 1) the digital asset is relevant from an ML/TF and Sanctions risk angle and if deemed
relevant, 2) consider the extent of the digital assets’ ML/TF and Sanctions risk.
1. Criteria Fls should consider when determining the digital asset relevance:
Can the digital asset be traded? A digital asset that fulfills any 1 of
Can the digital asset be transferred? the 4 criteria would be considered
relevant, given it can be used to
Can the digital asset be used for payment? store or facilitate the movement of
Can the digital asset be used for investment purposes? tainted proceeds
2. Factors Fls should consider when determining the extent of the digital asset ML/TF and Sanctions risk:
* A digital asset not backed by Government or a consortium of
Governance model
Ease of conversion into °
or from fiat currency
Extent of public adoption
Focus of this Paper
regulated entities, hence not subjected to any regulations
A digital asset with governance model that is partially or fully
decentralised and allows for anonymity
A digital asset that can be easily converted to or from fiat currency,
allowing for quick conversion into useable funds
Wide public adoption facilitating easier buying or selling of the
digital asset and conversion between cryptocurrency and fiat
currency, allowing for quick movement of funds
The Working Group has assessed that cryptocurrencies currently pose the highest ML/TF and Sanctions
risk. In view of this, this paper focuses on discussing the management of cryptocurrency-related
ML/TF and Sanctions risks.
Digital Assets Type Current Analysis of Risk Relevance
Cryptocurrencies °
(e.g., Bitcoin, Ether, USDT) +
Widely used, recognised, and wide-reach (wide public adoption)
High market capitalisation
Easily converted to fiat currencies
Risk Relevance of Other Types of Digital Assets
Digital Assets Type Current Analysis of Risk Relevance
Transferrable .
gaming/streaming credits °
Limited Purpose Digital °
Payment Tokens
Less widely adopted
Lower ease of conversion or transfer of value relative to
cryptocurrencies
Less widely adopted; they are only used for payment in a closed-
loop system®
Narrow group of captive users
Do not usually have any tangible value outside of that environment
Continues on next page
8Closed loop as the digital asset can only be used for payment of goods and services provided by its issuer or any merchant specified by its issuer, or
exchanged/transferred within the specific gaming/streaming platforms (i.e., do not leave these platforms) 6

ML/TF Risk Considerations
Risk Relevance of Other Types of Digital Assets (Cont'd)
Digital Assets Type Current Analysis of Risk Relevance
Central Bank Digital ; * Issued by Central Banks - highly regulated source, and
Currencies (“CBDCs’) intermediated by government
Digital Capital Markets ¢ Typically issued by regulated Fls
Products (“DCMPs”)
Tokens
Non-Fungible Tokens ¢ Lower ease of conversion as NFTs typically need to be sold for
(“NFTs’) cryptocurrency before being converted to fiat currency but note its
potential use as store of value or means to transfer value.
* Given that NFTs are typically sold for cryptocurrency first, and the
cryptocurrency is then exchanged into fiat currency, the ML/TF and
Sanctions risks of NFTs would be similar to the ML/TF risks
identified for “cryptocurrencies’” in page 6.

ML/TF Risk Considerations
Financial Crime Risks of Cryptocurrencies
These characteristics of cryptocurrencies makes them more vulnerable to abuse for criminal activity:
Q. Anonymity: As cryptocurrencies can be traded anonymously, it is difficult for due diligence to
© QO be conducted on the identities of buyers/sellers and the sources of funds of the
cryptocurrencies.
Cross-border: Cryptocurrencies can be traded across jurisdictions easily and rapidly,
including jurisdictions with elevated risk for financial crime and Sanctions risks.
Lack of Identifiers: Due to the decentralised nature of cryptocurrencies, it is difficult to
implement effective oversight on transactions as they may not always have verifiable on-chain
information of wallet holders.
©lel8
ii
04-0 o-lLe
Wallet/Platform Security: If a wallet or platform is compromised and the cryptocurrency is
stolen, it is difficult to retrieve the stolen cryptocurrency and prevent it from being laundered.
Types of Customer Nexus to Cryptocurrencies
While there may be other customers with nexus to cryptocurrencies, this best practice paper will cover three
main types of customer nexus to cryptocurrencies.
Digital Payment Token Service Providers (“DPTSPs”) and Fls (including Non-Bank Fls
A (“NBFls”))
B | Legal Entities with a business model that has nexus to cryptocurrencies
Natural Persons with source of wealth and/or funds related to cryptocurrencies
The following diagram captures the point of, and flow of transactions where a bank account may be used to
facilitate or receive cryptocurrency related proceeds.
Source of Wealth
© os© . From mining/
er ee Wallet 3
QL; 65 <r} / (unhosted)
Wallet4 | KG)
men(<) FN if
, WalletN
Wallet 5 ee
(hosted)
© Natural staking/Bank Account — oO investments in
Q Digital Payment Token -—aBaukBecount OQ) Persons cryptocurrencies
JE] Service Providers * Operating Account: * For sles
aos (“DPTSP”) For non-crypto Pores s from regwa e
transactions (i.e. tradi Se eee
$) payment of rents, rading)
—®@ ility bill .a FI Non-Banks FI ualty bil) ~-L * For settling ped eel
| | | | (“NBFI”) i Settlement Account mmm) cryptocurrency Revenue
__ Used to settle crypto transactions
~.transactions ; * From mining/
Wtseacc 777 * For payments/receipts of staking/
r proceeds from Legal investments in
unregulated DPTSPs Entities cryptocurrencies
; m= Witha business
— | Esa cates * From providing
1 nexus to
1 cryptocurrencies software/ hardware/
1 consultancy
Wallet 1 : servicesto support
=s --@). Lt (unhosted) cryptocurrency
=, ' ecosystem
1
1
1
1
1
1

Customer Nexus — Inherent Risks
Recommended Practices
FIs are encouraged to consider the additional risk factors, in conjunction with existing KYC risk factors.
MEL Common Questions to Ask SETUP CE oi Mig te RRsKCategory Indicators
OAnOje)
roy
Customer
Risk
Products and
Services
Risk
Geographical
Risk
What is the regulatory status of the DPTSP?
How sophisticated is the DPTSP’s AML/CFT
program?
Does the DPTSP use anonymising
techniques/privacy enhancing tools to obfuscate
transaction or customer details?
What are the potential ML/TF and Sanctions
risks associated with a DPTSP’s connections
and links to jurisdictions?
What is the extent and nature of the DPTSP’s
implementation of the travel rule?
Is Customers source of wealth (“SOW”) or
revenue generated from mining/staking/
investments in cryptocurrencies?
Is Customers bank account used to facilitate
cryptocurrency transactions?
Are there any transactions with unregulated
DPTSPs?
Are there any transactions with wallet addresses
that are sanctioned or linked to illegal activity?
Is there exposure to DPTSPs that offers and/or
accept privacy coins’® with anonymity feature
enabled?
Is there exposure to mixer/tumblerTM services?
Are there transactions with/ associated with
unhosted wallets?
Are there any P2P transactions?
Are there cross-border transactions with
jurisdictions which may be subject to less robust
AML/CFT obligations and oversight; or ban
cryptocurrencies and its related activities?
Is the AML/CFT legislation in the jurisdiction
under which the DPTSP is incorporated/licensed
less robust?
Are there transactions with jurisdictions that
have low regulatory enforcement or where there
is no relation to where customer conducts
business or lives?
Is the DPTSP incorporated in or operating out of
a country that is subject to economic sanctions?
Is the DPTSP incorporated in a country that is
known to setup offshore companies?
°Readers should also be wary of risks associated with centralised financial network
10Please refer to Annex B for the definition.
Please refer to Annex B for the definition.
12Fls may consider jurisdictions with weak AML/CFT regime to comprise of countries for which FATF has called for countermeasure and jurisdictions
determined by the FI to have inadequate AML/CFT measures.
DPTSP’s business operations
and activities are not in-scope
for licensing in the jurisdiction
of operations
DPTSP is in a jurisdiction with
weak or non-existent
AML/CFT controls
Where — cryptocurrency-to-fiat
Currency transactions occurs
P2P and not through any
regulated financial network?
Insufficient evidence to
corroborate for SOW/revenue
derived from cryptocurrency
investments
Insufficient evidence to
corroborate for purported
sale(s) and/or purchase(s) of
the cryptocurrencies
Where applicable (e.g.,
through available tools during
on-chain screening),
Customer has exposure to
transactions associated with
DPTs / DPT wallet addresses
on which anonymity-
enhancing technologies (e.g.,
privacy wallets/coins, mixers
and tumblers etc.) are applied
Substantial cross-border
transactions to jurisdictions
with weak AML/CFT regimes‘
Economic purpose of
cryptocurrency related
transactions could not be
established

Customer Nexus — Inherent Risks
Risk Appetite
FIs should identify, assess, and understand the ML/TF and Sanctions risks emerging from this space and
should ensure that measures to prevent or mitigate ML/TF and Sanctions risks are commensurate with the
risks identified.
It is recommended for Fls to set clearly defined client acceptance criteria for customers with nexus to
cryptocurrencies to determine i) whether customer can be onboarded or whether to continue the banking
relationship and ii) the appropriate level of due diligence to be applied on the customer.
FIs are encouraged to actively identify customers with nexus to cryptocurrencies for enhanced risk
management measures where necessary.
The table below is an example of categorisation of client acceptance:
Risk Appetite Category Client Acceptance
Within Risk Appetite’? Relationship allowed subject to appropriate approvals. Customer due
diligence (“CDD’) controls'* apply
Limited Risk Appetite Relationship allowed but possibly subject to greater scrutiny and
conditions, where necessary, approvals. Enhanced customer due
diligence (“EDD”) controls apply
Prohibited No such relationship allowed
13Examples of lower ML/TF risk nexus are:
* A low-risk nature and scope of the account, product, or service (e.g. low value savings, accounts with limited value storage);
* A low-risk nature and scope of the payment channel or system (e.g. closed-loop systems, systems intended to facilitate micro-payments, government-to-
person/person-to-government payments);
* The customer requests an exchange, and:
iL the source of or destination for the money is the customer’s own account with a bank in a jurisdiction assessed by the firm as low risk;
ii. the source of or destination for the crypto-asset is the customer’s own wallet that has been whitelisted or otherwise determined as low-risk;
HL, the source of or destination for the crypto-asset relates to low-value payments for goods and services; and
* The blockchain analysis results indicate a lower risk.
14CDD controls should address ML/TF and Sanctions risks. 10

Onboarding and Ongoing Due Diligence
A. Digital Payment Token Service Providers
This section focuses on recommended due diligence measures for Digital Payment Token Service
Providers (“DPTSPs”), Fls, and Non-Bank FIs (“NBFIs’).
DPTSPs‘* are payment service providers"® that provide any of the following services:
* a digital payment token service (i.e., deal in or facilitate exchange of DPT)
¢ a digital payment token transfer service (i.e., facilitate transmission of DPT)”
* a custodian wallet service”
* brokering of DPT‘
FIs/NBFls offer a range of cryptocurrency activities, e.g.:
1) Offering payment services to DPTSPs
2) Issuing financial products with cryptocurrency underlying (e.g.,
cryptocurrencies)
ETFs referencing basket of
The level of incremental ML/TF and Sanctions risk could vary depending on the nature of the FI/NBFI’s
cryptocurrency-related activities. Where the FI/NBFI’s activities are akin or closely linked to the facilitation
of a DPTSP’s cryptocurrency transactions, enhanced due diligence on the FI/NBFI may be necessary. In
contrast, where FI/NBFI’s exposure to cryptocurrency is due to structuring of investment products,
incremental ML/TF and Sanctions risks may be limited.
Due Diligence Considerations
Fls are encouraged to consider the following factors when conducting due diligence for DPTSPs:
¢ Type of digital payment tokens being offered by DPTSP, including the listing criteria (e.g., ability for on-
chain screening).
¢ Product or service anonymity and transferability
* Quality and status of regulation (i.e., robustness of the regulatory regime the DPTSP is subject to)
¢ Status of compliance to the Travel Rule‘®
¢ Strength of the DPTSP’s financial crime risk governance, risk management framework, and controls
* Type of exchanges the DPTSP works with
* Type of custodial solution offered by DPTSP
FIs should consider the materiality of incremental risks arising from cryptocurrency nexus in assessing the
appropriate level of due diligence. The table below outlines examples of due diligence measures the Fl
may perform (note: some may not be applicable to certain types of nexus), and where ML/TF and
Sanctions risks are assessed to be higher, enhanced due diligence measures should be applied.
Onboarding Periodic/Trigger Event Review
Obtain information on the DPTSP’s_ profile Refresh information on the DPTSP’s profile
regarding: obtained during onboarding, with a view on:
Types of products, including number and which
cryptocurrencies are offered/supported. The
listing criteria of cryptocurrencies offered
including assessing if cryptocurrencies can be
subject to on-chain screening.
Assessment of custodial solutions offered.
Where the DPTSP transacts with unhosted
wallets, understand the extent of transactions
with unhosted wallets (e.g., expected monthly
volumes and values)
15Per definition in PSA.
16 This includes banks offering DPT services.
17These DPT services are reflected in the Payment Services (Amendment) Act 2021.
Obtaining confirmation of updated regulatory
status and licence to operate
Obtaining confirmation that the DPTSP’s clients
are from jurisdictions where the DPTSPs are
licensed to operate
Review list of cryptocurrencies that the DPTSP
supports to ensure that these cryptocurrencies
remain within the FI’s risk appetite (eg.,
cryptocurrencies offered should be able to
subject to on-chain screening)
Continues on next page
18FATF Recommendation 16 requires DPTSPs to obtain, hold, and transmit required originator and beneficiary information, immediately and securely,
when conducting digital asset transfers. 11

Onboarding and Ongoing Due Diligence
A. Digital Payment Token Service Providers
Onboarding Periodic/Trigger event review
(Cont'd) (Cont'd)
* Product or service anonymity and transferability €.g., Review client’s transactions to ensure they
lesser-known cryptocurrencies or privacy COINS, are jn line with client’s profile
associations with Darknets, mixers or tumblers,
cryptocurrencies with higher velocity and volume, are
perceived to be of higher risk
* Quality and Status of Regulation’?
* Geographic risks (registered and _ operating
locations) and whether regulated in those locations
* Level of robustness of the operating location’s legal
and regulatory framework against financial crime
¢ Compliance with Travel Rule:
¢ Transparency: quality and completeness of
information on the parties in transaction messages
¢ Transactional Flow: process of fund transmission
between the client and the FI, including any other
parties involved (e.g., type of travel rule solution or
bilateral arrangement with counterparty DPTSPs)
¢ If DPTSP is unable to fully comply, assess the
interim measures taken to mitigate the risks and
action plan to fully comply with Travel Rule.
¢ DPTSP’s Exposure to High-Risk Entities:
¢ Check for DPTSP’s exposure to sanctions and other
higher risk entities such as_ services relating to
mixers/ tumblers etc., and privacy coins
Fils should inform DPTSP clients that the concerned FI will
not commence, continue the client relationship, or facilitate
activity that is subject to the prohibitions set by the FI.
Enhanced Due Diligence
For DPTSPs or where FI/NBFIl’s activities are akin or closely linked to the facilitation of cryptocurrency
transactions, enhanced due diligence may be necessary:
¢ Enhanced due diligence, including on-chain activities (e.g., DPTSPs had been dealing with
adverse/sanctioned wallets, etc.) where necessary, should be undertaken by FIs which can also be
leveraged on reputable third-party vendors
¢ Site visits or walkthroughs of client’s AML/CFT processes and controls (as applicable)?°
* DPTSP’s senior management ML/TF and Sanctions risk awareness and endorsement on the
importance of anti-financial crime culture and implementation of AML/CFT systems and controls to
mitigate financial crime risks (e.g., client risk evaluation checklist)
* Obtain senior management approval to ensure adequate management oversight of such clients with
cryptocurrency exposure
19Fis should be mindful that having one licensed subsidiary does not necessarily mean that a DPTSP is of lower ML/TF and Sanctions risks if they
have global operations (e.g., the DPTSP may take advantage of regulatory arbitrages, evident in the recent failures of DPTSPs).
204. For Sanctions/risk management purposes, to review for example IP address monitoring and blocking capabilities, screening of geographic
indicators, screening against sanctions fist, etc.); 2. Understanding the measures DPTSPs take to mitigate the risks of dealing with unhosted wallets or
with unregulated DPTSTPs/regulated DPTSPs that are not yet required to comply with travel rule 12

Onboarding and Ongoing Due Diligence
B. Legal Entities
This section focuses on recommended due diligence measures for legal entities with nexus to
cryptocurrencies.
Legal entities may have a nexus to cryptocurrencies in the following scenarios?":
1. Usage of bank accounts for payments/receipts of proceeds from regulated and unregulated DPTSPs
2. Usage of bank accounts for settling P2P cryptocurrency transactions (in fiat currency)
3. Revenue is derived from mining, staking, and investments in cryptocurrencies
Due Diligence Considerations
FIs are encouraged to consider the following factors when conducting due diligence for legal entities:
Transactions in line with nature of business (for legal entities under scenarios 1 and 2 above)
Regulatory status and jurisdiction of clients DPTSP counterparties (for legal entities under scenario 1
above)
The type of custodial solution being used by the legal entity (e.g., hosted or unhosted wallet)
Nature of business
The types of DPT that the legal entity is exposed to
Fls should consider the materiality of incremental risks arising from cryptocurrency nexus in assessing the
appropriate level of due diligence. The table below outlines examples of due diligence measures the FI
may perform (note: some may not be applicable to certain types of nexus), and where ML/TF and
Sanctions risks are assessed to be higher, enhanced due diligence measures should be applied:
Onboarding Periodic/Trigger Event Review
Assess the nature of clients nexus to « Refresh information on the client's’ profile
cryptocurrencies through requesting and obtained during onboarding, with a view on:
documenting information about nature of ¢ For legal entities under scenario 2 above,
customer's cryptocurrency exposure and the the domicile of the counterparties and
intended usage of account. This should include location of the Fils of the counterparties’
the client’s nature of business, the types of DPT accounts
the client will be exposed to, and the type of * For merchant customers transacting with
custodial solution involved significant DPTSPs counterparties, obtaining
the latest regulatory status of the merchant's
Establish the SOW/Source of Funds (“SOF”) or DPTSP counterparties
revenue obtained from cryptocurrency related
activity, including through ownership of DPTSP
* Review the client’s transactions to ensure they
are in line with client's profile. This may include
requesting corroborating documents for the
concerned transactions.
For merchant customers, Fl should assess the
regulatory status of the merchants DPTSP
counterparties if those DPTSPs contribute to a
significant volume of customer's transactions
Enhanced Due Diligence
For the legal entities assessed to be of higher risk, Fls should conduct or obtain one or several of the
following as applicable to the type of nexus (where appropriate):
Enhanced due diligence, including on-chain activities where necessary, should be undertaken by Fis;
where necessary FIs can leverage reputable third-party vendors
Obtain senior management approval to ensure adequate management oversight of such clients with
cryptocurrency exposure
21Entities that only provide technology or infrastructure solutions need not be subject to incremental Due Diligence measures. 13

Onboarding and Ongoing Due Diligence
C. Natural Persons
This section focuses on recommended due diligence measures for natural persons.
Individuals may have a nexus to cryptocurrencies in the following scenarios:
SOW derived from mining, staking and investments in cryptocurrencies
2. Usage of bank accounts for settling P2P cryptocurrency transactions (in fiat currency)
3. Usage of bank accounts for payments/receipts of proceeds from regulated and unregulated DPTSPs
1.
Due Diligence Considerations
Fls are encouraged to consider the following factors when conducting due diligence for natural persons:
Type and nature of the cryptocurrency-holding and investment(s)
The percentage of client’s source of wealth which is derived from cryptocurrency-related activity
Value and volume of cryptocurrency-related transactions
Ability to corroborate sales/purchase of cryptocurrency transactions, if they contribute to a significant
volume of customer’s transactions
The type of custodial solution being used by the individual (e.g., hosted or unhosted wallet)
Fls should consider the materiality of incremental risks arising from cryptocurrency nexus in assessing the
appropriate level of due diligence. The table below outlines examples of due diligence measures the FI
may perform (note: some may not be applicable to certain types of nexus), and where ML/TF and
Sanctions risks are assessed to be higher, enhanced due diligence measures should be applied:
Onboarding
Assess the nature of client's nexus to
cryptocurrencies through requesting and
documenting information about nature of
customer's cryptocurrency exposure and
the intended usage of account
Establish the clients SOW obtained from
cryptocurrency related activity, including
but not limited to the type and nature of
cryptocurrency holding and investment(s).
This may include requesting corroborating
documents for purported cryptocurrency
assets purchased from the DPTSP
Periodic/Trigger Event Review
Refresh information on the client's profile obtained
during onboarding, with a view on:
¢ For natural persons under scenario 2 above, the
domicile of the counterparties and location of the
Fis of the counterparties’ accounts
¢ Obtaining the latest regulatory status of the
DPTSP counterparties that the natural persons
deal with
Review the client's transactions to ensure they are in
line with client's profile. This may include requesting
corroboration documents for purported cryptocurrency
related transactions.
Review client's SOW incremental changes and obtain
corroboration where necessary
Enhanced Due Diligence
For the natural persons assessed to be of higher risk, Fls should conduct or obtain one or several of the
following as applicable to the type of nexus (where appropriate):
Enhanced due diligence, including on-chain activities where necessary, should be undertaken by Fis;
where necessary FIs can leverage reputable third-party vendors
Obtain senior management approval to ensure adequate management oversight of such clients with
cryptocurrency exposure
Where SOW is derived from ownership of DPTSP or ownership of cryptocurrencies, consider
corroborating ownership and performing due diligence on the related DPTSP and assess the related
DPTSP’s risk profile.
14

Ongoing Monitoring
Fiat Currency Accounts
Purpose of Accounts
Bank accounts may be used for the following purposes by customers with cryptocurrency nexus:
—_ . Operating Account
Used for supporting business operation needs such as payment to vendors and suppliers
Not involved in facilitating underlying cryptocurrency transactions with clients or counterparties
NO. Settlement Account (for DPTSPs)
Used for settling fiat currency payments or transfers with clients or counterparties
Involved in facilitating underlying cryptocurrency transactions with clients or counterparties
Business operation involves crypto as a form of payment
Manage wealth generated from cryptocurrency-related business or investments
Manage funds generated from P2P transactions
Consolidate payments/receipts of proceeds from DPTSPs (regulated/unregulated)
Manage wealth/revenue from providing software/ hardware/consultancy services to support
any player in cryptocurrency ecosystem
oor
Ongoing Monitoring
Existing transaction monitoring controls and rules should continue to apply for fiat currency accounts. To
address the cryptocurrency related ML/TF and Sanctions risks (e.g., presence of transactions involving
unregulated and/or higher-risk DPTSPs), the table below outlines examples of incremental measures the
Fl may perform:
Ongoing Monitoring
* Monitor account activity to identify non-alignment with nature of business, purpose of account (e.g.,
operating account being used to facilitate settlement of cryptocurrency transactions)
* Screen cryptocurrency-related counterparty names to identify sanction hits and any adverse news
* Monitor for any changes in geographical risk profile (e.g., changes in location of operations and
customer base)
¢ Where applicable, as part of banks’ ongoing monitoring, identify transactions with a digital asset nexus
using list-based monitoring/searches (e.g., search for specific DPTSP names or account number if
available, relevant key words in payment messages)
15

Ongoing Monitoring
Fiat Currency Accounts
Investigations
In the event of an alert/event trigger on transactions with a digital asset nexus, the table below outlines
examples of the additional queries the Fl may raise during their investigation:
Suggested Queries
* For outflow of funds (e.g., cryptocurrencies investment/purchase) -
The nature, volume and value of the cryptocurrencies purchase/investment
The purpose of the cryptocurrencies purchase/investment
The beneficiary of the cryptocurrencies purchase/investment
If the DPTSP is not licensed/registered to offer the activity and/or is located in a country different
from the client’s residence country, the reason for using the DPTSP
* For inflow of funds (e.g., sale of cryptocurrencies) -
The nature and volume of cryptocurrencies sold
The origin of the cryptocurrencies (e.g., obtained through mining) sold
Based on local regulation requirements (if applicable), the evidence of tax declaration/tax payment
for the fiat currency transaction
Date of initial purchase/investment/acquisition
¢ For both inflow/outflow of funds -
Wallet address used for the underlying transaction to be subjected to further checks on the
blockchain using lists and patterns
16

Ongoing Monitoring
Cryptocurrency Accounts
Purpose of Accounts
Fls may interact with cryptocurrencies through:
1. Transfer of cryptocurrencies
2. Exchange of cryptocurrency to fiat currency and vice versa
3. Offering clients a custodian account to hold cryptocurrency on behalf of their customers
Ongoing Monitoring
Fls are encouraged to consider the following factors when conducting cryptocurrency transaction
monitoring
¢ Presence of transactions involving unregulated and/or higher-risk DPTSPs
¢ Presence of transactions involving unhosted wallets
* Presence of transactions involving privacy coins, other forms of anonymising techniques
* Presence of transactions involving on-chain hits, i.e., sanctions
Transaction monitoring for cryptocurrency accounts and transactions typically revolve around the use of
on-chain screening? to facilitate reviews based on the source and flow of DPTs between wallets on the
blockchain.
By configuring the monitoring rules based on linkages (and/or exposure)
to certain labelled clusters and monitoring based on number of hops (i.e.,
how far away the labelled cluster of interest is from the current wallet /
transaction that is being screened), this allows for identification of
potential linkages to wallets related to other high-risk clusters and/or
associated with higher ML/TF and Sanctions risks
To address the cryptocurrency related ML/TF and Sanctions risks, the table below outlines examples of
the incremental measures the Fl may perform:
Transaction Monitoring
On-chain screening for all transfers based on transaction hash and/or originating/destination
wallet ID
For DPTSP customers:
Review of the DPTSP’s cryptocurrency transactions facilitated by the bank to identify material
changes/anomalies in flow of transactions
Utilise blockchain screening tools to review on-chain activity of DPTSP
Screen new and existing wallet addresses owned or controlled by the DPTSP against sanctions
list and wallets designated by authorities on a timely basis
Assess if the observed transactions are in line with known client profile
Verification of customer's ownership/control over the hosted and unhosted wallet
For customers that are legal entities and natural persons:
Review of the cryptocurrency transactions facilitated by the bank to identify material changes/
anomalies in flow of transactions
Verification of customer's ownership/control over the hosted and unhosted wallet
Risk assessment of wallet addresses to identify nexus to high-risk clusters (including but not
limited to sanctions nexus, nexus to mixers, tumblers, etc.)
Assess if the observed transactions are in line with known client profile
22 Refer to Annex A for more details on on-chain screening 17

Case Studies: Enhanced Due Diligence for DPTSP
Case Study 1 — Onboarding
Background
A prominent DPTSP approached a bank requesting a settlement account to receive and hold customer
funds (of the DPTSP). The bank had established a review and governance process for new DPTSP
relationships, which included reviews by a client selection committee, a reputational risk review, and an
enhanced due diligence (“EDD”) process tailored for DPTSP relationships.
During the EDD review, the bank identified several jurisdictions in which the DPTSP appeared to be
offering customer accounts without a licence. The bank utilised blockchain analytics to identify the
DPTSP’s top on-chain counterparties and identified an elevated rate of high-risk wallet addresses and
exchanges. During the review, the bank also observed that the DPTSP was hesitant to provide certain
details about its ownership and business operations, or to provide a legal opinion on whether it is allowed
to offer customer accounts without a licence in certain jurisdictions.
Ultimately, the bank declined to onboard the DPTSP due to the red flags identified during the EDD.
Red Flags
¢ DPTSP offered customer accounts in jurisdictions prior to obtaining a licence, and the DPTSP refused
to provide a legal opinion regarding its lack of licence in those jurisdictions
¢ On-chain analytics identified that some of the DPTSP’s top counterparties were high-risk wallet
addresses and exchanges
¢ DPTSP was not fully transparent regarding details about its ownership and business operations
Best Practices
1. Verify that the DPTSP is licensed in jurisdictions where it offers customer accounts:
a) Request DPTSP to provide proof of all current and pending licences
b) Review DPTSP’s website and other public sources to identify if DPTSP restricts customer accounts
in jurisdictions where it does not hold a licence
C) If DPTSP appears to offer customer accounts in jurisdictions where it does not hold a licence,
request DPTSP to provide an external legal opinion on whether it is allowed to offer customer
accounts in such jurisdictions
2. Utilise on-chain screening where necessary (e.g., Suspicions are raised, DPTSP exhibits high-risk
characteristics) to assess the on-chain counterparty risk of the DPTSP
a) Engage on-chain screening companies that provide a due diligence product that identifies high-risk
counterparties for DPTSPs. For example, to identify if a DPTSP has a higher counterparty risk
exposure than comparable DPTSPs
b) Higher counterparty risk exposure may indicate that the DPTSP has a weaker on-chain screening
program, or a higher risk appetite
3. Utilise public sources, including investigative journalism and regulatory investigations, to identify red
flags in a DPTSP’s ownership or business practices.
18

Case Studies: SOW Corroboration for Natural Person
Case Study 2 — Onboarding
Background
The KYC team within a bank received an account opening request involving a Personal Investment
Company, G Pte Ltd (“GPL”), whose ultimate beneficial owner i.e., Prospect C, is a non-resident customer
and a semi-retired professional.
Whilst the external appointments and business ownerships of Prospect C were duly corroborated with an
external due diligence report, a substantial part of the incumbent’s wealth is derived from cryptocurrency
holdings.
Although the traded prices witnessed upwards price-surge during Year 2021, Prospect C did not actively
sell his cryptocurrencies and declared:
a) That he invested in different cryptocurrencies since 2013 and converted all holdings into Ethereum
(“ETH”) and kept them in a certain digital wallet in 2016.
b) That he maintained a trading account, in GPL’s name, with a licensed virtual asset service provider
i.e., ABC Exchange, domiciled in an Asian country
During on-boarding, it was also noted Prospect C’s home country is in the process of finalising the
applicable tax-treatment of digital assets.
Red Flags
¢ Substantial percentage of UBO’s SOW is derived from cryptocurrency holdings
¢ Tax evasion risk
Best Practices
1. Documents should be obtained to evidence the cryptocurrency SOW and the trading account??:
a) A screenshot of the digital wallet to evidence the total token size, if available
b) Statement of account from ABC Exchange, if available
2. Given the substantial SOW from cryptocurrencies, Fl should consider requesting the prospect to
physically log-on his wallet in a video-conference session for the Fl to corroborate the prospect’s
cryptocurrency holdings
3. FI should independently corroborate SOW from Prospect’s cryptocurrency holdings against the ETH
price-per-day chart”?
4. After onboarding, the Fl should request the prospect to submit:
a) The latest Notice of Tax Assessment with the relevant disclosure(s) once the tax rules become
effective
b) Where source of funds are from the sale of cryptocurrencies through ABC Exchange, evidence of
sales transaction to be provided on as-and-when basis
5. Fils should further assess the behaviour of the client which could be indicative of a tax offence
warranting an STR filing
23For early cryptocurrency adopters, it might be based on circumstantial documentations for plausibility assessment (i.e., bought cryptocurrency in
2011 and onboarded by the FI in 2021, the customer might not be able to surface much documentation) 19

Case Studies: SOW Corroboration for Natural Person
Case Study 3 — Event Trigger Review
Background
Customer Y, a wealth management client, was engaged in technology-related businesses. Post on-
boarding, certain large transactions were triggered by the bank’s surveillance system. Transactions
involving two local companies, K Pte Ltd (“KPL”) and R Pte Ltd (“RPL”) caught the Bank’s attention. The
bank requested additional information and supporting document from the customer and ascertained that:
KPL-related transactions:
KPL’s principal activity involved the wholesale trade of a variety of goods without a dominant product;
information technology consultancy (except cybersecurity) was identified as a secondary activity.
Customer Y engaged KPL to perform tests of certain trading bots and the execution of trading algorithms
on major digital currency exchange platforms with an invested amount of USD 5 million. KPL was
responsible for monitoring and ongoing sales; the observed inflows from KPL were the customer’s
purported trading gains.
RPL-related transactions:
RPL’s registered activities were providing professional business and management consultancy services.
Customer Y engaged RPL to purchase circa 28 billion BitTorrent (“BTT”) Tokens at an agreed price of
USD 5 million, which was to be paid into the Ethereum (“ETH”) wallet of RPL. The observed inflows from
RPL were represented as the customer’s trading gains arising from the sale of BTT tokens as well.
Customer provided contracts with KPL and RPL and the below were noted during the review:
Contract with KPL:
a) It was unclear as to what algorithms and/or trading bot(s) was/were applied by KPL; and
b) The purported trading gains could not be corroborated
Contract with RPL:
a) It was unclear as to whether RPL had acted as an intermediary for the sale or if it was the actual seller
of the BTT tokens
b) The BTT tokens were not delivered by RPL on “delivery versus payment” basis, but over a period of 9
months. Additionally, the sale of the BTT tokens was at the discretion of RPL and the proceeds of the
liquidation would be held in RPL’s custody. The arrangement appeared to be in RPL’s favor and counter-
intuitive without any known safeguards to prevent misappropriation
c) The purported trading gains could not be corroborated
It was further noted that KPL and RPL were newly-incorporated i.e., less than a year at that point of time.
Red Flags
¢ Unable to ascertain reason as to why Customer Y would risk investing USD 5 million each into a newly
established company without credentials and/or known market reputation. Furthermore, there were no
known safeguards as to how the interests of Customer Y would be adequately protected
¢ Documentation was insufficient to corroborate trading gains
Best Practices
1. Obtain supporting document(s) to corroborate the transactions
2. The FI should analyse the contracts to determine whether the transactional purpose (including the
assessment of plausibility), is in line with customer's explanation
20

Case Studies: SOW Corroboration for Natural Person
Case Study 4 — Event Trigger Review
Background
Customer Y, a customer of the affluent segment, is employed as a consultant in a company dealing in the
development of software and applications (except games and cybersecurity). The account was generally
inactive except for a few large ticket transactions, which triggered the Bank’s transaction surveillance
system. Notwithstanding that the remitter was a regulated cryptocurrency trading firm, the Bank requested
Customer Y to submit relevant supporting artefact(s) to evidence his purported crypto-asset holding(s), as
this asset-class had not been profiled in the customer’s assets, SOW and SOF during the on-boarding.
The Bank was prepared to exit customer-relationship if the (a) transaction could not be duly validated and
the (b) SOW could not be satisfactorily re-established.
The customer has been cooperative and provided relevant documents during the Bank’s request for
information.
Red Flags
¢ Transactions not in line with customer's profile
¢ Customer’s cryptocurrency investment holdings not corroborated based on existing SOW established
Best Practices
1. Obtain documentary proof to evidence purported crypto-asset holding(s)
mas Examples of Documentary Proof [iisiatatatetstattetatatetatatatetatetatettetetetatatetetetetetetatetetetetsteletetetstetelsletettsetelsietenetats
The following illustrative artefacts (non-exhaustive), may be applied to support the crypto-investment (if
available) -
* Screenshots of purchase and withdrawal confirmations displaying the (a) Account ID / Name and (b)
Transaction Details (Note: where available, the Fl validates the screenshot(s) against publicly available
source(s). This may facilitate the assessment if the screenshot(s) is/are bona fide, prima facie);
¢ Confirmation emails/receipts, which provide proof of purchases or withdrawals;
¢ Screenshot of the exchange account details, which should include the Name, Name of the Platform:
and
¢ Statements of transactional history.
Bee ee Be Be Be Be Be eB ee Be eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB BP eB eB eB eB eB eB eB ewe ew ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eB ee eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB eB ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee
2. Fl should update the customer’s SOW journey in view of the change in customer’s profile.
3. Fl should establish a clear red line beyond which the customer relationship should be exited.
21

Case Studies: Travel Rule Compliance with Hosted &
Unhosted Wallets
Case Study 5 — Ongoing Monitoring
Background
Customer Z, a retail customer, declared during on-boarding that he actively traded in cryptocurrencies
through a Singapore-domiciled DPTSP where he maintained a hosted wallet with the DPTSP. Separately,
he also maintained an unhosted wallet. Below is a snapshot of the KYC controls the DPTSP had in place.
During Onboarding During Transfers
¢ KYC information obtained and KYC checks in place ¢ Travel rule
Hosted ¢ Travel rule implemented through integration with a implemented
Wallet travel rule solution provider
* KYC information obtained and KYC checks in place ¢ Proof of
Proof of control/ownership required (Satoshi Test?4 control/ownershipUnhosted : . ; .implemented / evidence of customer login to wallet by required (Satoshi TestWallet -
Officials of Fl) implemented)
Examples of Due Diligence Measures to be Put in Place
While travel rule is only applicable for hosted wallets for regulated entities, incremental due diligence may
be required for unhosted wallets.
Examples of controls that Fls can adopt include:
1. Identifying transfers where DPTSP counterparty is not able to share relevant details and subject to
exceptional processes, cryptocurrency credit should only be provided to customer after the details are
obtained.
Considering filing of Suspicious Transaction Reports or closure of relationship if required
Ensuring that details received or to be sent as part of travel rule is screened before the cryptocurrency
credit is provided to the account or cryptocurrency transfer out is initiated
4. Evaluating appropriate due diligence when selecting travel rule solution provider by considering cyber
and information security standards, as well as data privacy.
on
Due to differences in jurisdictions’ thresholds and maturity of implementation of travel rule solution, Fils
should work with Customer and DPTSP counterparty where required to ensure that information exchange
is done in a safe and secure manner.
For transfers from unhosted wallets, Fls may evaluate controls which may include:
a) Identifying originator and beneficiary for transfers and subject them to screening.
b) ID/IV of originator/beneficiary in case of third-party transfers (change in beneficial ownership)
c) Proof of customer's ownership/control of the wallet
The following scenarios necessitate closer attention or additional due diligence as it may lead to non-
compliance of travel rule related regulations:
a) No process for exchange of information for transfers from DPTSP (irrespective of regulatory status)
b) Challenges around interoperability of travel rule solutions if Fl and DPTSP counterparty use different
service providers
c) Details obtained are not subject to screening
d) Absence of checks (Satoshi / evidence of customer login etc.) for transfers from unhosted wallets
24Satoshi Test is a method to verify ownership / control of unhosted wallets by requiring the owner to send a small amount of cryptocurrency to the
DPTSP within a specific time period. Some DPTSPs are assessing adoption of wallet signature checks as an alternate for Satoshi test — Fis to
evaluate solutions best fit based on business needs and risk appetite. 22

Case Studies:
Case Study 6 — Holistic Due Diligence
Background
The FI intends to onboard a natural person for the provision of Cryptocurrency Custodial Services. The
customer would be transferring his holdings from both his hosted and unhosted wallets to the FI.
i itDPT Custody
Account Onboarding DPT Transfers
202 m= ——)»
gransferinJ Transieroxt OR
Natural Digital Asset Custody Unhosted Hosted by
Persons (Cryptocurrency) Wallets DPTSP
Below are some of the due diligence measures the FI has in place.
Customer FI custody
Unhosted wallets Hosted wallets by DPTSP
account
Customer selection i.e., Unhosted or private « Additional checks if
accredited investors, wallet due diligence. DPTSP is
existing customers, This may _ include unregulated/higher risk.
customers with account- utilising on-chain Evaluate leveraging on-
based relationship etc screening through chain screening tools to
on-chain activity review on chain activity
Incremental due checks and proof of of the DPTSP
; diligence (for the control or ownership
During cryptocurrency risks) * Pre-approved list of
On- DPTSP after conducting
boarding SOW corroboration for due diligence, including
significant review of — on-chain
cryptocurrency activity
investments.
Monitor activity in Identification and « Exchange originator or
custody account of screening of beneficiary details
client (for alignment of originator or (Travel Rule), and such
transactions with client beneficiary details to be screened
profile etc.)
Ongoing Pre-screening of
Monitoring All relevant checks to wallets — prior to
be completed before transaction (on-chain
credit to customer as well as originator
or beneficiary
On-chain screening at checks) and safelist
time of transaction such wallets
23

Case Studies:
Case Study 7 — On-Chain Screening Assessment
Background
Use of a Blockchain Analytics Tool to facilitate on-chain screening
This case study illustrates how available Blockchain Analytics tools can visualise the flows to a customer
wallet.
Customer A intends to transfer 10 Bitcoin (“BTC”) from his wallet (unhosted Wallet ID in Blue Box) to the
Fl. Based on the public blockchain, the below flows were identified between different wallets.
Public Block Chain View
a|
(~ (
WaletiD 1By.... fe —— Wallet ID 1Bv.... © fe watetio t..
\. \.
( ( )
Wallet ID 3FC.... < Wallet ID 1Bv.... Wallet ID 1Bv.... <
4
Wallet ID 1Bv.... |
Vv
To manage the risk from this inflow, the Fl screened the wallet using a Blockchain analytics Tool (“Tool”)
with a rule setup to identify any nexus to Sanctioned entities/clusters — both direct and indirect.
A direct sanction nexus would mean direct flows from the cluster (one hop); an indirect sanction would
indicate that there may be indirect flows (multiple hops).
Blockchain Analytics Tool View
ia |
[ Unlabelled| [_Exchange A _ |
—+| WalletID 1Bv.... —f-—4 WalletID bc1.... ff watt 1Cb....
[_Unlabelled| a| Unlabelled |
Wallet ID 3FC.... —| Wallet ID 2Ca.... Wallet ID 1bb.... k
tT
Wallet ID 3Fa....
OFAC Sanctioned
Wallet
The Tool based on proprietary ML/AI models was able to link some of these wallets to real world entities. It
was able to identify that 3 wallets including the Wallet of customer are unlabelled (this could be because
they may be unhosted and/or there is not enough evidence available for the Tool to label them). There are
3 wallets to the right above, which as per the Tool, are controlled by an Exchange (Exchange A); hence
the Tool labels these wallets as Exchange A and clustered them together with the category as Exchange.
There was another wallet (bottom-left of the above diagram) which belonged to the list of wallets
sanctioned by OFAC; which was labelled as OFAC Sanctioned Wallet and would be added to a cluster
which may contain such sanctioned wallets.
Continues on next page
24

Case Studies:
Case Study 7 — On-Chain Screening Assessment
A blockchain analytics tool is able to screen customers’ wallet and:
1.
2.
Generate hits for rules that the Fl configured e.g., the wallet had indirect interactions with sanctioned
entities, as it is 2 hops away from the customer's wallet
Identify the flows from other clusters e.g., the wallet also had flows from Exchange A
Based on the above, the appropriate level of due diligence may be conducted.
Note: This is a very simple representation of the interactions/flows between wallets for ease of
understanding. Depending on the business model, client base, cryptocurrency supported, and
counterparties, there could be more complex flows. Hence, such tools could be leveraged by FIs after
considering their efficiency and effectiveness.
Best Practices
Blockchain analytics tool should be considered as one of the many controls to strengthen the overall
holistic due diligence and surveillance capabilities and not as a standalone control.
FIs may leverage on the capabilities of blockchain analytics tools to monitor the on-chain activity as
indicated above
A risk-based approach that considers a bank’s business model and focuses on effectiveness is key for
successful implementation of this control
It is important to integrate results/inputs from such on-chain screening to the existing monitoring
methodologies to aid holistic surveillance
While currently in most tools the effectiveness is dependent on their strength to label/cluster wallets;
there are tools which are enhancing capabilities to identify certain out-of-pattern activities based on
activities in the wallets (also Known as behavioural indicators, behavioural rules, behavioural signatures
etc.), cross-chain and multi-asset screening etc. FIs may consider such capabilities after evaluating
their effectiveness
FIs should assess the appropriateness of the thresholds and cluster identification methods used by the
third-party providers
25

Annex A — On-Chain Screening
Capabilities of On-Chain Screening Technologies
The nature of blockchain provides opportunity to monitor the flow of DPTs between the wallets on the
blockchain. Blockchain analytics tools based on their proprietary methodologies (which includes data
analytics, application of ML/Al models) can link wallets on blockchains to real-world entities. A prerequisite
for this is that the chains should allow access - should not be private blockchains or chains that promote
privacy. Such blockchain analytics tools provide insights into the on-chain activity, thereby providing an
opportunity for Fls to integrate the same into their overall risk management framework.
FIs may consider using insights from such tools to facilitate holistic risk management across off-chain and
on-chain activity pertaining to their clients.
Some of the capabilities that could be leveraged are listed below for reference (Please note: The below is
based on capabilities observed in various tools and some tools may have more advanced capabilities than
others; Fls may evaluate specific capabilities provided by the tools as part of their evaluation).
= Cryptocurrency
© Wallet- 0
Screening .
Transaction
Screening .
(DPT
Transfers) .
= Entity Due °
—! Diligence
Other
Capabilities
Limitations:
Identify source and destination of DPT flows through the wallet
Identify linkage to any specific clusters of interest (e.g., sanctions
nexus)
Identify ownership of wallet
Identify details related to on-chain activity in the wallet, such as
wallet balance and transfer details
Provide risk scores at wallet level
Identify source or destination of the transaction depending on
whether it is a deposit or withdrawal request
Identify linkage to any specific clusters of interest to the
transaction which is subject to screening (e.g., sanctions)
Enable configuration of risk rules at transaction level and any hits
to the rules would be highlighted for appropriate review
Offer detailed insights into activities of entities (especially
DPTSPs), through reports or features within the tool
Provide details of on-chain activity and off-chain information (may
include regulatory status, location, details of group entities,
adverse news)
Provide risk scores for entities
Provide modules to facilitate detailed investigations which would
provide graphical representation of flows and further details
Provide capability to identify behavioral patterns based on the on-
chain activity related to the wallet being screened
Develop capabilities to provide cross-chain and multi-asset tracing
Dependency on strength of clustering/ labelling methodology used by the tools
In most cases, tracing stops at labelled entities
Given the nature of blockchain, it is quite easy to create multiple hops within a short period of time, hence this has to be considered while
assessing monitoring approach
Lack of specific identifiers (while the tool can provide indication of the cluster name especially for entities, specific identifiers like name, mobile
number, email ID, national ID etc are not available) 26

Annex B — Definitions
Below are the definitions for the terms used across this paper:
Digital Per PSA, any digital representation of value (other than an excluded digital
payment representation of value) that —
tokens a) is expressed as a unit;
(“DPTs”) b) is not denominated in any currency, and is not pegged by its issuer to any
currency;
c) is, or is intended to be, a medium of exchange accepted by the public, or a
section of the public, as payment for goods or services or for the discharge of
a debt;
d) can be transferred, stored or traded electronically; and
e) satisfies such other characteristics as the Authority may prescribe.
Limited Per PSA, any non-monetary customer loyalty or reward point, any in game asset,
purpose or any similar digital representation of value that —
digital a) cannot be returned to its issuer, transferred or sold in exchange for money;
payment and
token b) may only be used —
Fiat currency
i. inthe case of anon-monetary customer loyalty or reward point — for the
payment or part payment of, or in exchange for, goods or services, or both,
provided by its issuer or any merchant specified by its issuer; or
ii. inthe case of an in-game asset — for the payment of, or in exchange for,
virtual objects or virtual services within an online game, or any similar thing
within, that is part of, or in relation to, an online game.
A type of currency that is declared legal tender by a government but has no
intrinsic or fixed value and is not backed by any tangible asset, such as gold or
silver.
Capital Per SFA, any securities, units in a collective investment scheme, derivatives
markets contracts, spot foreign exchange contracts for the purposes of leveraged foreign
products exchange trading, and such other products as the Authority may prescribe as
capital markets products.
Mixer / A service that mixes different streams of potentially identifiable cryptocurrency.
tumbler This lends to the anonymity of transactions, as it makes it harder to trace.
Privacy coin’ A type of cryptocurrency that uses technologies to make it difficult to link an
Peer-to-Peer
(“P2P”)
transactions
individual to a transaction by providing anonymity to parties involved and
confidentiality of details of the transaction like the amount.
DPT transfers conducted without the use or involvement of a DPTSP or other
obliged entity (e.g., DPT transfers between two unhosted wallets whose users are
acting on their own behalf).
2/

Annex C - Working Group Members and Other Contributors
OCBC Loretta Yuen (Co-chair)
OCBC Fairlen Ooi
OCBC Tay Jun Yuan
SCB Grace Ho (Co-chair)
SCB Faith Tan
HSBC Kwan Lai Heng
HSBC Ben Chua
JP Morgan Santanu Biswas
DBS Nicolas Soh
DBS Ramesh Krishnamoorthy
UOB Yu Beng Soon
UOB Lim Dewei
UOB Chua Chek Ping
UOB Nikhil Chogle
Citibank Dylan Lee
Citibank Dane Shelly
Maybank Chen Jee Meng
ACIP Secretariat Representatives
Commercial Affairs Department
Monetary Authority of Singapore
Professional Services Representative
Ernst & Young Radish Singh
Ernst & Young Lim Siew Lee
Ernst & Young Patrick Hoehn
Ernst & Young Charmaine Chong
Industry Associations
Association of Banks in Singapore (“ABS”)
Association of Cryptocurrency and Blockchain Enterprises and Start-Ups Singapore (‘ACCESS’)
28

