10 Shenton Way MAS Building Singapore 079117 Telephone 65 6225 5577 Facsimile 65 6229 9229
Circular No.: AMLD 01/2022
Date: 8 February 2022
To the Chief Executive Officers of All Financial Institutions
Dear Sir/Madam
NON-FACE-TO-FACE CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE MEASURES
A INTRODUCTION
Financial institutions (Fls) are increasing the use of non-face-to-face (NFTF) measures and
technologies as part of their customer due diligence (CDD). We encourage the responsible adoption
of new technologies to mitigate money laundering, terrorism financing and proliferation financing
(ML/TF/PF) risks. To better support Fls’ understanding and assessment of available technology
solutions, this Circular sets out industry good practices observed by MAS? and additional supervisory
guidance on the NFTF CDD measures to help mitigate impersonation and fraud risks?.
B NON-FACE-TO-FACE CUSTOMER DUE DILLIGENCE MEASURES
(i) Natural Persons?
2 Fls have been integrating the use of Myinfo in CDD checks, including the identification and
verification of identity for Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents at customer onboarding. While
most Fls have also used Myinfo to identify and verify the identity (ID&V) of foreigners based in
Singapore’, they have supplemented this approach with additional checks (such as sighting of original
documents) to verify passport details that are not currently available on Myinfo.
1 Based on a series of thematic engagements with selected Fis such as banks, capital markets services
intermediaries, payment institutions and direct life insurers.
2 For avoidance of doubt, this Circular should be read in conjunction with the relevant MAS Anti-Money
Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) Notices and Guidelines in relation to CDD
Measures for Non-Face-to-Face Business Relations, as well as MAS’ Circular of 8 January 2018 (AMLD 01/2018)
on the use of Myinfo and CDD measures for NFTF business relations.
3 Includes connected parties, beneficial owners and natural persons appointed to act on behalf of the customer.
* Foreigners who have a valid permit (e.g. work permit or employment pass) can register for Singpass and avail
themselves to the Myinfo service. From November 2021, the registered address for certain groups of foreigners
based in Singapore (e.g. Long Term Visit Pass (LTVP), LTVP+, Student Pass, S Pass, Employment Pass, Dependent
Pass) is available on Myinfo.

3 Besides the use of Myinfo, Fls have utilised video-conferencing as a means to onboard
customers instead of physical meetings. This typically entails engaging the individuals and sighting
their identification (ID) documents over the video call. To mitigate the risks of fraud and
impersonation, Fls should put in place appropriate controls during the video-conferencing process to
verify the identity of the customer and the authenticity of the ID documents sighted via video-
conferencing. In this regard, some Fls have required the use of control questions to be answered by
the customer, or performed liveness? checks to detect impersonation (such as the use of a pre-
recorded video feed). As Fis transit to more digital means of onboarding customers, they should
continue to raise staff vigilance and conduct training to enable detection of possible fraudulent or
tampered ID documents. For example, some Fls have trained staff involved in the video-conferencing
process to specifically look out for the requisite authentication markers on the ID documents displayed
by the customer on screen.
4 Notwithstanding, the use of video-conferencing alone may not always be sufficiently
adequate to detect and mitigate fraud and impersonation risks. Fls should perform additional checks
via a different channel as appropriate, to complement the video-conferencing process, especially for
accounts that pose higher ML/TF risks. On this front, some Fls have supplemented the video-
conferencing approach with additional checks, such as verifying the customer’s information against
reliable and independent databases or performing a check sum digit test® to identify data validation
errors in the customer’s ID document.
(ii) Legal Persons and Legal Arrangements
5 In general, we noted that Fils tended to use publicly available sources or databases such as
company registries and annual reports to ID&V customers who are legal persons. Video-conferencing
may be used to ID&V connected parties, beneficial owners and natural persons appointed to act on
behalf of the customer. However, CDD documents that cannot be verified against a registry or lack the
requisite authenticity markers (such as a foreign certificate of incorporation) should not be verified
purely via video-conferencing. Fls should institute additional measures to verify that the soft copies
of documents are genuine, such as by obtaining an original certified true copy or requiring suitably
qualified persons’ to use digital signatures or watermarks to certify the authenticity of the soft copies
of the documents.
6 A few Fls have also started to explore the use of electronic signing (e-signing) techniques to
facilitate the establishment and continuation of NFTF business relations, instead of obtaining wet ink
signatures. For example, Fls are exploring the acceptance of documents that have been e-signed by
directors and authorised signatories of corporate customers using GovTech’s new “Sign with
> Example of liveness checks manually performed by the Fl’s staff include requesting the customer to tilt his head
in a unique sequence of different directions as prescribed by the FI’s staff.
6 This typically involves an algorithm test to verify the data integrity of the digits set out in the machine readable
zone (MRZ) of passports.
7 Examples of a suitably qualified person include a notary public, a lawyer or certified public or professional
accountant.

Singpass”® feature, while some are using or considering the use of various vendor solutions for
enabling e-signatures. The MAS Notices on the prevention of ML and countering the financing of
terrorism provide for the use and retention of electronic copies of documents, subject to them being
admissible as evidence in the Singapore courts. Fls should assess the robustness of processes in place
to safeguard the authenticity of electronic documents and their admissibility in court?.
C USE OF NEW TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS
7 The use of new technology solutions’® (e.g. biometrics technologies, liveness detection
technologies, document authenticity verification tools, etc.) has the potential to improve effectiveness
and efficiency of the NFTF CDD processes as well as enhance the customer experience. Fls should
regularly review such technology solutions to ensure their continued effectiveness in identifying and
verifying customers remotely.
8 In general, the adoption of new technology solutions to fulfil CDD requirements appear to be
more widely adopted for natural persons than legal persons and arrangements. This section
elaborates on some of these new technology solutions adopted by a small but growing number of Fis
to address the heightened risks of (i) impersonation and (ii) fraudulent or tampered documents in a
NFTF setting.
(i) Risk of Impersonation
9 Most of the solutions deployed by Fis surveyed included elements of biometrics technology,
such as facial recognition, where digital algorithms are used to match the face in the ID document
against that in the live video or selfie photo. Liveness detection technology that uses algorithms to
analyse data collected from biometric sensors is also employed to verify if the FI is interfacing with an
actual customer or a fake representation*?.
10 These new technology solutions are either purchased from third-party solution providers or
developed in-house. Several Fils are exploring “Identiface with Singpass”!*, which taps on facial
biometrics data available with the Singapore Government to verify the identity of the customer,
without the need for Fls to collect them separately.
8 https://api.singpass.gov.sg/library/sign/business/introduction
° For instance, in Singapore’s context, the admissibility of electronic records as evidence is governed by the
Evidence Act (Cap 97). Section 116A of the Evidence Act contains certain presumptions which a party seeking to
use electronic records as evidence in court may rely on.
10 For avoidance of doubt, a technology is considered new if it is new to, or has yet to be widely adopted by, Fls
in Singapore for AML/CFT purposes. Some examples are provided in section C of this Circular.
11 The use of liveness detection technology enables the FI to more effectively detect spoofing attempts, as
compared to a manual liveness check performed by the Fl’s staff. The latter may not be as effective in addressing
impersonation risks, such as the case where deepfake video frames are being injected directly into the camera
feed to appear like the customer is responding to instructions by the Fl’s staff to tilt his head etc.
12 https://api.singpass.gov.sg/library/identiface/business/introduction

(ii) Risk of Fraudulent or Tampered Documents
11 A number of Fils reported the use of in-house or third-party ID document authenticity
verification tools to detect fraudulent or tampered ID documents. This includes capturing unique
security features embedded in the customer’s ID document and verifying them against databases
through the use of Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). Data validation’? and data consistency“
checks are also performed in addition to checks against police records, to ascertain if the ID document
has been stolen, lost or compromised.
12 To ensure that these new technology solutions are fit-for-purpose, FIs should conduct an
internal assessment of the effectiveness of the solutions in mitigating impersonation and fraud risks
prior to implementing them. Fls should not solely rely on external quality assurance standards of the
technology service providers to arrive at their conclusion, but should perform their own assessments.
The FI’s assessment of technology solutions should be approved by Board and Senior Management.
On an ongoing basis, Fls should also monitor the robustness of their technology solutions to ensure
that the solutions continue to remain effective in mitigating impersonation and fraud risks. Guidance
on the assessments of new technology solutions is provided in the Annex.
D ENHANCING INTERNAL CONTROLS
13 The use of new technology solutions has the potential to improve onboarding efficiency and
mitigate risks associated with NFTF onboarding. Notwithstanding, technology solutions are not
immune to failures and can still be exploited by criminals. For example, there may be instances where
the Optical Character Recognition technology may not be able to correctly recognise text on low-
quality images or documents with physical labels added onto them. When verification by the new
technology solution fails, corrective action is required. As such, it is important for Fls to establish
appropriate metrics to monitor the performance of the technology solutions employed and take
timely intervention measures where there are issues observed.
14 To address the residual risks with the use of new technology solutions, Fls have put in place
additional controls, such as requiring the customer to make an initial deposit into the account with
the Fl from funds held by the customer in a bank account in Singapore” or performing a call-back to
the customer using a telephone number that can be independently verified.
15 MAS expects the Board and senior management of Fis to maintain effective oversight of the
management of ML/TF risks and AML/CFT controls. In particular, Fls should put in place effective
13 This includes verifying whether algorithmically-validatable elements e.g. document numbers in the MRZ of
the ID document are accurate.
14 This includes verifying whether data represented in multiple places on the ID document e.g. MRZ lines and
Optical Character Recognition-extracted text on the ID document are consistent.
15 Some Fls have extended this to funds held by the customer in an account with a foreign bank subject to, and
supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements consistent with the standards set by the Financial Action
Task Force (FATF). Where this is the case, Fls should perform adequate risk assessment to assess the ML/TF risks
associated with the jurisdiction, to ensure that it is within the Fl’s risk appetite to do so.

mitigating controls to address the heightened impersonation and fraud risks where customers are
Onboarded remotely. It is also imperative that Fls properly establish clear accountability for the
effectiveness of NFTF CDD processes and technology solutions to manage these risks.
16 A number of Fls have raised queries on the adoption of NFTF CDD measures that may be of
relevance to the wider industry. Our responses to these frequently asked questions are in the Annex
to this Circular.
Yours faithfully
(Sent via MASNET)
VALERIE TAY
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING DEPARTMENT

Annex: FAQs on the Adoption of NFTF CDD Measures
A. Use of Video-Conferencing (VC) to establish NFTF business relations
A1. Where VC is used to establish NFTF business relations, would the Fl need to conduct
additional checks or would the sole use of VC suffice?
As outlined in MAS’ Circular No. AMLD 01/2018 dated 8 January 2018, Fils may hold real-time VC
that is comparable to face-to-face communication, in establishing NFTF business relations. In using
this approach, Fls should put in place appropriate controls during the VC process, to verify the
identity of the customer and the authenticity of the ID documents sighted via VC. Some examples
of such controls that are put in place during the VC process are set out in paragraph 3 of this Circular.
To mitigate the risks of impersonation and fraud, Fls should also perform additional checks, as
appropriate, to complement the VC process. The Guidelines to MAS’ Notices on prevention of ML
and countering the financing of terrorism provide some examples of these additional checks. Other
examples are also set out in paragraph 4 of this Circular.
Fls are encouraged to adopt new technology solutions (e.g. biometrics technologies, liveness
checks, document authenticity verification tools, etc.) that complement the use of VC, to more
effectively ID&V customers remotely.
A2. Would the use of VC to sight the original CDD documents suffice, or would the FI still be
required to obtain a Certified True Copy (CTC) of the documents from the customer?
Where the FI has sighted an original ID document via VC and is satisfied that the ID document
sighted is consistent with the soft copy furnished by the customer, the Fl would not need to obtain
a CTC of the ID document. Please note that the supervisory expectations on the use of VC (as set
out in Al above) would continue to apply.
For the avoidance of doubt, CDD documents that cannot be verified against a registry or lack the
requisite authenticity markers (e.g. a foreign certificate of incorporation that cannot be verified
against a company registry) should not be verified via VC alone. Fls should conduct additional checks
to verify that the soft copy is genuine, such as obtaining an original CTC’, or requiring suitably
qualified persons to use digital signatures or watermarks to certify the authenticity of the soft copy.
16 Identification documents of customers, authorised signatories and beneficial owners should be certified by
parties independent of the customer. For “connected parties” as defined in the Notices on Prevention of Money
Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism, where only identification is required, and verification is
risk-based, the CTC could be done by internal parties of the customer, such as company secretary, in-house
lawyer, or director (although a director cannot CTC his own ID document).

B. CTC documents
B1. Can soft copies of CTC documents be accepted, or would the FI need to obtain the original
hard copy CTC documents?
Scanned copies of CTC documents may be accepted, provided the FI puts in place measures to
detect possible fraudulent or tampered documents. This could include, but are not limited to, (i)
sighting the original document via VC with the appropriate controls in place (see Al and A2 above),
in addition to obtaining a scanned copy of the CTC document, or (ii) performing an independent
call-back to the certifier, to verify the authenticity of the certification provided.
In the longer term, Fls are encouraged to adopt new technology solutions and digital signatures or
watermarks to verify the authenticity of soft copy documents.
C. Assessment of New Technology Solutions
C1. How should the assessment of the new technology solution be conducted, and what should
be included in the scope of such assessments?
(i) Prior to implementing the technology solution, the Fl should conduct an internal assessment!”
of the effectiveness of the technology solution in mitigating impersonation and fraud risks. The
Fl’s assessment should be approved by Board and Senior Management.
Some non-exhaustive areas that Fls may cover in this assessment include:
e Understand functionalities of the technology solution;
e Evaluate effectiveness in risk mitigation — including testing functionalities and assessing
reliability of underlying databases used;
e Evaluate residual risks and put in place appropriate risk mitigation measures.
(ii) At the first-year mark after implementation, a once-off independent assessment by a suitably
[18
qualified professional*® should be performed to certify the effectiveness of the new technology
solution in managing impersonation and fraud risks. This has been conveyed in MAS’ Circular
No. AMLD 01/2018 dated 8 January 2018.
Some non-exhaustive areas that Fls may cover in this assessment include:
e Review the policies and procedures, including guidance and training provided to staff, on
the use of the new technology solution to perform NFTF CDD;
17 This can be conducted in-house by the Fl’s control function (e.g. Internal Audit or Compliance). Where the FI
does not have the relevant capabilities or expertise to do so, the assessment should be done by an independent
third party (e.g. External Auditor or qualified consultant).
18 Any suitably qualified professional may perform the independent assessment of new technology solutions for
NFTF verification. This can include the Fl’s Internal Audit (IA) function, where the IA has the necessary expertise
to do so. Fls may also engage an External Auditor or independent qualified consultant to conduct the assessment
and certification of the effectiveness of the new solution in managing impersonation and fraud risks.

e Test the effectiveness of the new technology solution in detecting red flags e.g. potential
fraudulent or tampered document;
e Assess the adequacy and effectiveness of controls that have been put in place to mitigate
impersonation and fraud risks;
e Ensure the proper oversight and governance of the adoption of the new technology
solution;
e Propose recommendations for enhancements and remediate any gaps on a timely basis.
Fls should continue to monitor the robustness of their technology solutions on an ongoing basis to
ensure that the solutions remain effective in mitigating impersonation and fraud risks.
C2. Would it suffice for the FI to rely on an external quality assurance standard to ascertain the
robustness of the technology solution?
Fils cannot solely rely on external quality assurance standards of the technology service providers
to arrive at its conclusion but should perform its own assessment (as set out in C1 above). For
avoidance of doubt, Fls are not expected to assess the algorithms underpinning the new technology
solution, but rather to understand the functionalities offered by the solution, to assess its suitability
for the FI’s NFTF CDD process.
Fils should also ensure that the implementation of the technology solution is in line with the MAS
Technology Risk Management guidelines.

