Circular No.: AMLD 01/2018
08 January 2018
The Chief Executive Officers of All Financial Institutions
Dear Madam/ Sir
USE OF MYINFO AND CDD MEASURES FOR NON FACE-TO-FACE BUSINESS RELATIONS
MAS supports the use of technology by financial institutions (Fls) to improve the
customer onboarding experience while adequately assessing and managing money
laundering and terrorism financing (ML/TF) risks.
2 This Circular provides guidance regarding Fls’ use of Mylnfo as a verified source of
identification information. It also highlights considerations relating to the use of non-face-to-
face (NFTF) verification measures, and provides further examples of NFTF measures that Fis
may employ as additional checks to manage the risk of impersonation.?
(i) | Use of Mylnfo as Verified Identity Information
3 Mylnfo has been made available for private sector use from end-2017. In line with
Singapore’s Smart Nation initiative, Fls will be able to use the MylInfo platform for customer
identification and verification.
e MAS considers MylInfo to be a reliable and independent source for the purposes
of verifying the customer’s name, unique identification number, date of birth,
nationality and residential address.”
e Where MyInfo is used, MAS will not require Fls to obtain additional identification
documents? to verify a customer’s identity, and will also not expect Fis to
separately obtain a photograph of the customer.*
1 The examples listed here are in addition to those listed in the Guidelines to the relevant AML/CFT Notices, in relation to
CDD Measures for Non-Face-to-Face Business Relations.
2 Where Fls require additional customer information such as other personal attributes or data in order to provide financial
services to the customer and the information can also be obtained from Mylnfo, Fils may access and obtain the information
on MylInfo subject to the customer’s consent.
3 Including, for example, customer’s NRIC or passport.
4 Fils which decide to retain the photograph requirement for other reasons, such as to fulfill Group compliance requirements,
may continue to do so.

e Fils should maintain proper records of data — including data obtained from MylInfo
— as per the requirements set out in the MAS Notices.
4 For the avoidance of doubt, Fis should continue to subject customers who are not
enrolled on MyiInfo (e.g. non-Singapore residents) or who do not consent to the use of MyInfo
for account opening/establishing business relations to the existing Customer Due Diligence
(“CDD”) requirements of the applicable MAS’ Notices on Prevention of Money Laundering
and Countering the Financing of Terrorism (“MAS Notices”) and Guidelines to the MAS
Notices (“MAS Guidelines”).
(ii) | Clarification on CDD Measures for Non-Face-to-Face Business Relations?
5 Where identity is obtained electronically through other NFTF means, including through
transmission of scanned or copy documents, Fls should apply additional checks to mitigate
the risk of impersonation. MAS Guidelines provide illustrative examples of what such
measures could be. The examples are non-exhaustive and Fls can apply any one of those
measures, so long as the FI has assessed it to be appropriate to mitigate the risk. In addition
to the existing examples in the MAS Guidelines, Fls can also consider applying the following
measures:
a. holding real-time video conference that is comparable to face-to-face
communication, in addition to providing electronic copies of identification
documents;
b. verifying the identity of a customer through a document the customer has signed
with a secure digital signature using a set of Public Key Infrastructure-based
credentials issued by a certified Certificate Authority under the Electronic
Transaction Act; and
C. using new technology solutions© including, but not limited to, biometric
technologies (e.g. fingerprint or iris scans, facial recognition), which should be
linked incontrovertibly to the customer.
6 Fis that rely on new technology solution(s) to perform NFTF CDD should ensure that
these solutions continue to facilitate CDD measures that are at least as robust as those
performed with face-to-face contact’. This should include a once-off independent assessment
from a suitably qualified professional® to certify, at the first year mark after implementation,
5 Licensed Money-changers and Remittance Agents should refer to MAS Notice 3001 on Prevention of Money Laundering
and Countering the Financing of Terrorism for the applicable requirements for NFTF business relations. The clarifications on
CDD Measures for NFTF Business Relations set out in this Circular shall apply only upon fulfilment of the requirements under
Notice 3001.
6 A technology will be considered new if it is new to, or has yet to be widely adopted, by financial institutions in Singapore
for the purposes of onboarding of customers.
7 In line with the requirements in the relevant MAS AML/CFT Notices, in relation to CDD Measures for Non-Face-to-Face
Business Relations.
8 Any suitably qualified professional may perform the independent assessment of new technology solutions for NFTF
verification. This can include the Fl’s Internal Audit (IA) function, where the IA has the necessary expertise to do so. Fls may
also engage an External Auditor or independent qualified consultant to conduct the assessment and certification of the
effectiveness of the new measure in managing impersonation risk.

the effectiveness of the new technology solution in managing impersonation risk. The
independent assessment should be retained by the FI for as long as that technology solution
is in use, and for a minimum period of 5 years after it ceases to be in use. MAS may request
to review the independent assessment as part of our supervisory process.
7 MAS expects the Board and senior management of Fls to exercise effective oversight of
the management of ML/TFE risks and controls.
Yours faithfully
(Sent via MASNET/email)
VALERIE TAY
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING DEPARTMENT

