Monetary Authority
of Singapore
Effective Practices to Detect and
Mitigate the Risk from Misuse of
Legal Persons
June 2019

Concerted vigilance against misuse of legal persons
hub, Singapore welcomes _ legitimate
businesses to establish presence here.
¢« Such legal persons, including Companies and
partnerships, can play important roles in
supporting entrepreneurship and economic
growth.
~
4 »
Q
« However, legal persons can also be misused for
illicit DUrpOses.
¢ Financial institutions (“Fis”), in facilitating
transactions on behalf of its customers, need to
be discerning of the true purpose of
transactions, to differentiate legitimate
businesses from those used for illicit Purposes.
¢ To safeguard ecosystem integrity, corporate
customers must also play their part to support
banks’ due diligence efforts; to address queries
r
&
¢ The AML/CFT Industry Partnership (“ACIP”) has
published a paper on Legal Persons — Misuse
Typologies and Best Practices Paper (May 2018}.
¢ The MAS has conducted a series of thematic
inspections targeted at strengthening Fils’
controls against the misuse of legal persons,
particularly shell companies. This paper
summarizes the key findings and elaborates on
the sound practices observed, for Fils to use as
reference to enhance controls.
JK and provide documentation when needed. JK )
| a |
@e6e8
500 eeee
000 0 ie
000 eeesn oe
eeee
oo Gd eocee He
eeee tm
Go | G ececece Ray
*This paper sets out MAS’ supervisory expectation of effective AML/CFT frameworks and controls to address the risks and typologies. The paper does not impose any
new regulatory obligations, and is derived from MAS’ banking inspection findings. Fls should study and incorporate learning points from this guidance in a risk-based
and proportionate manner, giving proper regard to the profile of their business activities and customers.
Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion 2

Banks should actively detect shell/front companies and must
conduct enhanced due diligence on such higher risk entities
Strengthen
detection
capabilities
Employ risk
mitigation measures
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities
Strengthen detection capabilities
* Risk monitoring and detection throughout account lifecycle
N ¢« Enhancements to on-boarding and ongoing monitoring controls
— strengthen customer due diligence requirements and red flag
indicators to target risks associated with misuse of legal persons
¢ Risk-targeted staff training — strong risk awareness needed to pick
Up nuances in customer attributes and behaviours that may point
to risk concerns
¢ Feedback loop to controls —- enhance controls to address gaps
identified from post-mortem reviews
Augment detection with use of data
otto analytics tools
¢ Mining of internal data to target known shell typologies
* Conduct network analysis to map out relationship linkages and
surface risk which may be unobservable from isolated review of
Customer accounts
Employ appropriate risk mitigation measures
¢« Set clear risk tolerance thresholds
« Adopt balanced and risk targeted approach in managing
higher risk Customers
Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion

Improve controls to detect shell/front companies and disrupt
illicit activities
On-boarding
¢ Detection of shell companies, though challenging at account inception, has been
successful where staff has strong risk awareness and is alert to unusual traits and
characteristics (“risk indicators”).
¢ Banks should require staff to look out for such risk indicators by asking the right questions, to
better understand customer profiles in order to assess and mitigate the attendant risks.
¢ Banks should obtain additional information for CDD to assess if account opening requests
are supported by legitimate business needs. More details on these additional information
can be found on the following page.
Ongoing monitoring -
Transaction monitoring and periodic review
¢ Information on customers’ business and financial profiles gathered as part of the bank's
on-boarding/periodic reviews form the basis for assessing whether customers’ transaction
patterns are unusual, hence requiring greater scrutiny.
¢ Bank staff should be given adequate guidance and effectively trained, to look out for,
and detect unusual behaviors for review on a timely basis.
¢ More information on the effective conduct of transaction monitoring are set out in MAS’
Guidance for Effective AML/CFT Transaction Monitoring Controls (September 2018).
——_
Feedback to controls
¢ Banks should continually enhance controls to address gaps identified from post mortem
reviews of relevant cases and STRs, to strengthen banks’ ability to detect potential shell
companies.
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion

Strengthen detection capabilities
-— Enhancements to on-boarding and ongoing controls
Strengthen KYC/CDD requirements £2 >
¢ Ask the right questions to understand the customer’s business
profile and risks.
¢ Specific questions to target nominee arrangements enable
banks to do proper due diligence on the ultimate beneficial
owner, Or person exercising Power over the account;
¢ Obtain information on their (i) nature of business, (ii) Purpose
and reason for establishing relationship, (iii) anticipated level
and nature of activity, (iv) source of funds and source of
wealth and (v) information on its customers and suppliers.
¢ Incorporate indicators to assess risk of abuse of legal persons in
customer risk assessments.
¢ E.g. (i) Unusual/complex structure, (ii) Use of nominee
arrangements and (iii) Unusual conduct of business relations
(e.g. transactions that are not in line with customer’s profile}
Effective risk assessment to support
robust ongoing monitoring
Usage of multi-factor risk assessment
A single red flag is typically not a sufficient indicator of suspicion,
and banks should use a multi-factor approach in risk assessment.
Red flags may include:
¢ Unclear economic purpose for a Common individual/ address
linked to multiple companies
¢« Unclear economic purpose for requiring bank accounts in
Singapore
¢ Unusual change of corporate structure/ beneficial Ownerships
after account opening
¢ Unrelated third parties added to operate account after account
opening (e.g. authorised signatories or internet banking users}
¢ Suspicious transactions which are not in line with bank’s
understanding of customers
¢ Superficial corporate websites which are inconsistent with scale
of business
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion

Strengthen detection capabilities
- Feedback to controls and timely staff training
Incorporate lessons learnt from post for > Timely updates to training materials to take into bd
mortem review of controls account evolving red flags and typologies
¢ Banks should put in place structured processes to conduct post- ¢ Banks should incorporate the following in their training materials
mortem reviews of controls upon detection of significant risk to raise staff risk awareness:
events, using a risk based approach. « Lessons learnt from post-mortem reviews
« Near miss cases
¢ Through this process, banks were able to identify specific control ¢ Cases detected by alert staff, including the relevant risk
enhancements to better detect red flags, for closer due indicators picked up
diligence.
¢ Training should be conducted for all staff (in all three lines of
defence) in a timely manner, to strengthen risk awareness and
sharpen ability to identify potential shell companies.
particular CSP, banks should engage the CSP on its on-boarding
controls, and assess whether additional due diligence is required
for referrals from this CSP.
Post-mortem review of controls
Introduction

Use of multi-factor risk assessment g
¢ Bank A uses combinations of the following indicators to assess whether its customers are
“TM vulnerable to misuse of legal persons: (i) Foreign incorporated, with no business
operations in Singapore, (ii) Multiple layers/complex ownership structure, (iii) Nominee
arrangements (directors/shareholders) and (iv) Introduced by CSP.
¢« Understanding the set up and structure of the customer relationship allows the bank to
perform further due diligence on the ultimate beneficial owner, or person exercising
power over the account, which may not be obvious from incorporation documents.
Understanding the economic purpose of opening Singapore bank account g
¢ Bank B requires a questionnaire to be completed by corporate customers, where the
customer fulfils any of the following criteria: (i) Foreign incorporated, (ii) Presence of
majority foreign ownership in Singapore incorporated company or (iii) No business
operation in Singapore.
¢ The questionnaire enables the bank to gain a robust understanding of the customer
and to better assess the Economic purpose for maintaining a bank account in
Singapore through the following questions:
¢« Does the business have an operation in Singapore?
¢ Is the business newly incorporated or operated?
¢ Does the business have low paid-up capital?
¢ Does any of the key connected persons reside outside of Singapore?
¢ Does the business have any director who works for a CSP¢
¢« Does any of the key connected persons have existing relationship with the bank?
* Does the company have other accounts with other banks?
¢ To elaborate on the rationale for account opening
Introduction Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion 7

Rigour in source of funds checks and staff risk awareness
Bank C’s rigour in checking a corporate Customer’s sources
of funds uncovered adverse news on the company’s
previous director.
During the check, the bank discovered that a counterparty
bank had exited the accounts of Companies of this
previous director, for he had been reportedly involved in
setting up multiple shell companies to evade sanctions.
The bank was concerned that the directorship had been
changed to mask the previous director's continued
association and exercise of control over the Company, as
well as several other companies.
With further indication that this customer could also be a
shell company, an STR was filed, and the relationship
exited.
Introduction
Case Studies — Good Controls
Jf
Usage of contact persons to bypass bank’s screening checks
Individual D was previously put on Bank E’s internal watch list due to
suspicions of him operating shell companies. However, he subsequently
used a proxy to open new corporate accounts, and listed himself as a
“contact person” after the accounts were opened. This was detected by
an alert bank staff during review of a suspicious transaction flowing
through one of the accounts. The bank filed STRs on these accounts and
exited the relationships, upon noting unusual transactions which were not
in line with the corporate customer’s profile.
Unusual operation of account by third parties
¢ Banks observed instances where transactions were being authorised
online by third parties/ foreign nationals with no nexus to Singapore.
During a review of suspicious transactions, Bank F noted that the
transactions flowing through the account were predominantly executed
using internet banking, authorised by a foreigner residing overseas. The
bank was unable to ascertain the relationship between the customer
and the foreign internet banking user. The bank’s review also noted
instances of round-tripping and transactions to individuals in high risk
jurisdictions, which were not in line with the bank's understanding of the
customer. Hence, an STR was filed and relationship was exited.
Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion

Case Studies -— Control Lapses
©Detection of unusual nominee arrangements/shell company risks nO?
Corporate changes to directors, shareholders and authorised signatories were
subject to Customer due diligence (“CDD}) checks, which include screening for
adverse information and static update of information. However, these checks, on
their Own, were not able to support timely detection of unusual nominee
arrangements/shell companies.
Following review of a series of transaction monitoring alerts, Bank G noted that the
beneficial owner (“BO”) of a corporate account was a director/shareholder of
many active and inactive companies. The bank further noted in its review that the
authorised signatory (“AS”) was unable to respond to the bank’s query on the
transactions performed and had to obtain information from a third party. In
addition, the bank noted that it was unusual that the new BO was not an AS of the
account. Hence, an STR was filed and the relationship exited.
The bank’s post mortem review of the account noted several missed Opportunities
to detect nominee arrangements/shell company behaviours from various changes
by the customer:
¢« Change in BO
¢« Change in company name and business activity to different industries
* Company secretary added as the sole AS
While changes to directors, declared BOs and AS are not uncommon, the bank
should be alert fo unusual Changes in organisational structures.
Strengthen Detection CapabilitiesIntroduction Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures
Unusual account changes shortly after account opening
MAS’ review of the account of Customer H, who was
the subject of an STR filed by Bank I, noted the following
Unusual account changes:
¢ Change in BO one day after account opening
« Change of AS one month after account opening
These actions could be undertaken with the intention to
circumvent the bank’s on-boarding checks and
controls. In processing requests for such account
changes, banks therefore need to put in place
adequate controls to effectively detect nominee
arrangements that appear unusual for the conduct of
additional due diligence.
Conclusion

Augment detection capability using data analytics tools
Mining of Internal Data Network Link Analysis (NLA)
e Banks conduct network analysis by mapping out
relationship linkages of customers exhibiting — shell
e Banks have used data analytics tools to mine internal data
to target known shell company typologies. MAS welcomes
such risk detection efforts as they have been effective. company characteristics.
Some examples of successful use of data analytics are e Visualisation of network uses known information to
illustrated in subsequent pages. identify hidden relationships, and therefore identify
potential shell companies for further review
e Examples of multiple indicators used to identify customers e Information used to identify hidden links include:
for further enquiries: (i) Common addresses, connected — parties,
(i) No clear operating presence/business activity contact information
(ii) Sharing addresses with known shell companies (ii) Transactions with high risk counterparties
(iii) Transacting with counterparties in high risk or tax
haven countries, e Banks found that the use of NLA enabled staff to visualise
(iv) High flow through of funds potential linkages that are not easily observed from
(v) Complex corporate structures or unusual changes in isolated review of customer accounts. The NLA can be
enriched with information on whether the accounts had
transaction monitoring alerts generated and/or STRs filed
to inform decisions on prioritising accounts for review.
corporate structure
(vi) Locally incorporated customers which appear to be
controlled remotely by foreign parties without clear
rationale
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion 10

Case Studies - Good Use of Data Analytics
Bank J sets out a list of shell/front companies indicators and curates a set of
filtering indicators to identify potential shell/front companies for review. The
multi-factor filtering Conditions include:
Common beneficial owners, directors, addresses, contact details,
counterparties
Entities transacting with or have relation to tax haven/high risk countries
Entities with high transaction traffic or value
Entities with low paid up capital relative to monthly value of transactions
Entities exhibiting flow-through transactions
Relationship managers whose portfolio comprise mainly companies that
are from tax haven/high risk Countries
After filtering out companies that fulfil the above conditions, Bank J
conducts network analysis to uncover potential hidden connections
amongst the entities.
Results
The first run of data analytics performed by
the bank had identified close to 400
companies which exhibited shell company
Characteristics.
Following which, the bank had prioritised
the review of 42 companies which pose
highest shell company risks.
Of those reviewed, more than half have
Unusual transactions which were not in line
with the customer’s profile, hence were
exited with STRs filed.
An example can be found on the following
pages.
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion

Case Studies @
_—_—— Ke
Person A
erson Contact Number 1
j
Person B
Epitity A
Counterparty A Counterparty-8 Cotnterpsry C Countefparty D Counterparty = Coutterpanyrr Coanterpary GS Counterparty H
Entity M tity EntityD EntityK i Entity P .
ity Entity y y Entity J ity Entity GEntity 6
(3)MULTIPLE CORPORATE PARTIES TO OPP PARTY ID-A E Entity N Entity F Entity! Entity G Entity Q
Entity O Entity Entity H
(2)MULTIPLE CORPORATE PARTIES TO OPP PARTY ID-B
¢ Through the filtering mechanism, Entity A was identified as a potential shell/front company, and ane
on Bank J's records, Person A was the beneficial owner of Entity A.
* From the network link analysis above, the bank uncovered hidden linkages between Entity A, Person A and Person B, who is associated with
Legend:
SG Director
Focus Entity (within cluster group)
Entity (outside cluster group)
Remittances
& Common contact (Email, Phone)
® Common address
Couriterparty ! Counterparty J
(2)MULTIPLE CORPORATE PARTIES TO OPP PARTY ID-C
(5)MULTIPLE GORPORATE PARTIES TO OPP PARTY ID-A
(14)MULTIPLE CORPORATE PARTIES TO OPP PARTY ID-A
(2)MULTIPLE CORPORATE PARTIES TO OPP PARTY ID-A
a corporate secretary company. The three parties shared the same address and contact details (e.g. phone, email).
* The bank also noted 2°¢ layer relationships, that were oreviously unknown To the bank, through multiple remittances (e.g. linkage
Entity A and Entity G through remittances to/from Counterparty F and Counterparty G}.
© Following the network link analysis, the bank had conducted a fund flow analysis
subsequent page.
Introadiiction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures
to detect for unusual transactions, as shown in the
twork analysis was conducted. Based
s between
Conclusion

— Sending CounterpartyA
GE) Sending Counterparty B
——— Sending Counterparty C ——
(ER) Sending Counterparty D |cae
———_ Sending Counterparty E
| Sending Counterparty F
| Sending Counterparty G
Receiving Counterpaty D ————
Sending Counterparty H
xt ae
>
LU ae
= Receiving Counterparty J
LU L__]
2)
—— Sending Co arty J 3— io Raceivng ComterpatyK Actions taken by Bank J
i-—-
|_| ¢ In addition to the red flags observed, the bank's
at i =— LOCAL OUTGOINGFUND TRANSFERS ———— . ° ; ° °
Raceivng Comtarparty M (| review of Entity A’s account and transaction profiles
Renee | revealed no local business interests/transactions in
Receiving Comrperty OS Singapore.
Receiving Counterparty P
Sending C. L TRANSACTIONS DUE TO OUTGOING TRANSFER ONLINE - DEBIT —-4
——— LOCAL INCOMING FUND TRANSFERS Receiving Counterparty C
(EE) Sending Counterparty N
——— Sending CounterpartyO Receiving CounterpartyB |
source of funds.
Hence, the bank (i) exited the relationship, (ii) filed
an STR and (iii) placed the corporate entity and the
beneficial owner in the internal watchlist.
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion 13

. y y \ y y
4 Q 4
‘N
©» ext25
a
Node Legend & Filter:
@ “STR 1K K USES NE 1K ON
@ “ STR with Open Internal Escalations
@ ) STR with Open Alert
@ ¥ STR with Open Internal Escalations & Alert
@ Open Internal Escalations
a @ ! Open Alert> >-ext29 =
Vy ® “ Open Internal Escalations & Alert
alee @ “ Closed Non STR
rae ext11 © Not Alerted
se cust10 » External Non-Bank
@ Bank Regional Location OT SK
( yrext2s
(® High Risk Country
— Name Screening True Hits
é a ext24 Link Legend & Filter:
op — “ X-Border Txn With High Risk Country
\¥) X-Border Txn With Non-High Risk Country
— 4 Domestic Txn
| Existing Relationship
) Old Relationship
Analysis performed by Bank K
Following an SIR filed on Cust 6, Bank K conducted a further network link analysis. With this, the bank was able to perform the following:
¢ Holistic review of transactions — The bank observed that a counterparty (“Ext 11”) of Cust 6 was a common counterparty of another customer (“Cust
Review of closed TM alerts (green nodes) - Quality Assurance team reviewed the closed TM alerts to reassess the alerts. Decision was made to
escalate the transactions which were previously closed, to be filed as an STR.
Prioritisation of TM alerts — Bank also prioritised review of alerts for customers where additional concerns have been escalated by staff (blue and
blue/red nodes), for faster review.
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion 14

Employ timely, effective risk mitigation measures
Observations Case Study - Weak Mitigation
Set clear risk appetite — Do not deal with illicit shell companies
¢ Bank N’s policy requires a review of customer relationship to be
performed, following the bank’s filing of a STR, to assess whether the
relationship should be retained or whether additional controls are
required to be implemented. Following the bank’s filing of STR on a
customer, the bank’s review noted that the sources of funds for
several transactions were from third parties, which the bank had no
sight of. As part of the bank’s customer review, the bank followed up
with the customer to obtain further clarifications and corroborative
documents for the underlying transactions.
enhancements]
¢ Customers identified to pose higher risk of misuse (either through Data
Analytics, or CDD reviews), should be subject to enhanced controls and
monitoring, to mitigate risks.
Examples of Good Practices -— Enhanced conirols
However, the follow up review was protracted, as the customer was
Unable to provide satisfactory resoonse to address the bank’s
concerns on the sources of funds. The account was only exited 1.5
years later. The bank subsequently noted that transactions volume
and frequency to high risk counterparties had increased, which were
not detected due to lack of enhanced monitoring on the accounts.
Bank L subjects newly incorporated companies with no
operating presence in Singapore to enhanced due diligence
and transaction monitoring.
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures Conclusion 15

Case Studies - Weak Mitigation
Risk based verification of information
¢ Bank O considers customers that have no operating presence in
Singapore to be higher risk and subject to enhanced transaction
monitoring.
MAS reviewed a case where staff of the bank relied on the customer's
representations that operations in Singapore would be established in
the near term to decide that higher risk rating was not warranted and
consequentially the customer transactions were not subject to
enhanced monitoring.
However, prompted by MAS’ review, the bank realised that the
customer in fact still had no local operating presence, several years
after account opening. This triggered the bank to review the customer’s
account transactions which found several unusual transactions with
counterparties that were not in line with the Customer’s business profile.
Given concerns over the legitimacy of the customer's business and
transactions, the bank exited the account and filed an STR on the
customer.
To address MAS’ findings, the bank has since required verification
checks (e.g. request for corroborative documents or conduct site visits)
to be performed, on a risk basis, as part of the customer due diligence
reviews conducted.
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures
¢ Bank P placed Individual Q on the bank’s internal watch list and exited alll
corporate accounts beneficially owned by Individual Q due to suspicions
that he had facilitated the incorporation of companies for illicit DUrposes.
The bank’s review noted red flags, including frequent wire transfers to high
risk jurisdictions, flow-through transactions and superficial corporate
websites that were inconsistent with the turnover of the companies.
The bank also identified a few other individuals, who were listed as
connected persons/directors of the accounts set up by Individual Q
(“connected individuals”). However, the bank did not undertake any
reviews, or put in place additional controls to assess whether other
accounts related to these connected individuals were similarly established
for illicit DUrposes.
These connected individuals continued to incorporate new companies,
and established new accounts with the bank. A subsequent review
conducted by the bank on these group of accounts, noted unusual
transactions which were not in line with the bank’s understanding of the
business, observations that the accounts were being controlled by foreign
beneficial owner, Unusual Changes of Ownership to foreign entity and
addition of foreigners as internet banking users.
To address MAS’ findings, the bank has given guidance to staff to conduct
review accounts of individuals connected to a known or suspected bad
actor, to detect and disrupt the wider network of suspicious activities.
Conclusion 16

Balanced and risk targeted approach taken by banks
eS www sss ean
In summary...
¢ MAS observed an increased awareness by banks to be
alert to the risks of legal persons being misused for illicit
Ourposes.
¢ Banks recognise the need to differentiate legitimate
companies from the nefarious ones, and has made
encouraging efforts to sharpen detection controls to
minimise disruption to legitimate businesses.
¢ Banks should adopt a balanced approach to mitigate
risks Of abuse of banking system by potential shell/front
company accounts. Where exit or account restrictions
are warranted, banks should properly Communicate
their risk concerns so that legitimate customers are given
Banks should actively detect shell/front opportunities to address banks’ concerns.
companies and conduct enhanced due
diligence where they have such higher risk
customers:
« While there has been some early successes, banks
should continue to be vigilant to evolving risk and
typologies, and adapt controls to sustain effectiveness.
Banks should also continue to dedicate adequate
resources for effective detection and mitigation of risks.
Proper investigations and customer
engagement should be conducted, fo
avoid unduly affecting the banking
needs of companies conducting I Remain alert to unusual transactions
legitimate business and behaviour red flags;
Assess legitimacy of business
relationship;
Adopt effective risk mitigation
measures
« The risk of misuse of legal persons will Continue to be a
key focus area for MAS and we will continue to share
relevant information and best practices with the industry
to deter and disrupt this criminal typology.
ba ee ad
Introduction Strengthen Detection Capabilities Usage of Data Analytics Tools Employ Risk Mitigation Measures 17

