Monetary Authority of Singapore
GUIDANCE ON ANTI-MONEY
LAUNDERING AND
COUNTERING THE FINANCING
OF TERRORISM CONTROLS IN
TRADE FINANCE AND
CORRESPONDENT BANKING
MAS Information Paper
October 2015

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Table of Contents
1
2
3
4
INTRODUCTION... cccccccccccccsseeceeessnseeeeeecceaeeeeeseeessaeeeesenstseeeeeesentaeeeees 3
TRADE FINANCE |... ccc ccccccnneeeecceccsseeeeseesssseeeeescsaeeeeeeeessteeeesentees 4
Risk Assessment of Trade Finance Business......................:cceeeeeeeeeeees 5
Due DiliQence .......... oo c cc cece cece cece eee eee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaaeeeeesaeaneeeeeaaenees 5
Sanctions Controls 2.0.0.0...eee ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesaeeaeaaaeeeeeees 12
Trade-Based Money Laundering Controls.......................:ceeeceeeeeeeeeeeees 14
Transaction Monitoring & Filing of Suspicious Transaction Reports .. 17
Policies and Procedures & Training.......................cccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 17
Potential Red Flags.................0.ccccccccccccccceeessceeeeeeeeeecceeeesteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseneeaees 19
CORRESPONDENT BANKING ....................cccccccccccccceeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeestteaeeeeeeeees 22
Due Diligence on Respondent Financial Institutions ................000..00.... 22
Due Diligence on Group Relationships .................0....cc ccccececceeeeeeeeen ees 26
Ongoing Monitoring of Respondent Financial Institutions .................. 26
(of @) \ [od IU }>) (0) | Rance 29
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 2

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 In the National Risk Assessment report published in January 2014, MAS had
identified the anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism
(“AML/CFT”) controls for trade finance and correspondent banking as areas where
there could be scope for improvement. Robust controls in these areas enable banks’
to better prevent and detect the risks associated with trade-based money
laundering’, proliferation financing and other sanctions compliance related issues.
This paper aims to provide banks with guidance on the AML/CFT controls in trade
finance and correspondent banking activities, assist them in their benchmarking
against industry norms and in the implementation of sound risk management
practices, and identification of control gaps. The observations were drawn from MAS’
on-site inspections and off-site reviews.
1.2 The sharing of sound practices is intended to help banks further strengthen
their controls and risk management. The examples in this document are not
exhaustive. The guidance should be applied in a risk-based and proportionate
manner, taking into account the risks posed by the customers, and the nature and
complexity of the trade finance and correspondent banking activities of each bank.
1.3. The contents of this guidance paper do not modify or supersede any
applicable laws, regulations and requirements.
‘For the purpose of this paper, the term, “banks”, refers to banks, merchant banks and finance
companies.
* The term, “trade-based money laundering”, has been described by the Financial Action Task Force
as “the process of disguising the proceeds of crime and moving value through the use of trade
transactions in an attempt to legitimise their illicit origins’.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 3

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
2 TRADE FINANCE
2.1 As a trading and transportation hub, Singapore is vulnerable to money
laundering (“ML”) risks posed by trade finance. Due to its significant volume and
value, trade finance transactions are an attractive medium for money launderers to
transfer large values across borders. Trade finance can also be exploited for
terrorism and proliferation financing (“TF/PF’”).
2.2 Significant concerns relating to these ML, TF or PF risks in trade finance
(collectively known as “financial crime risks” in this paper) have been highlighted by
other supervisory authorities and organisations such as the Financial Action Task
Force (“FATF”)*, the Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering (“APG”)* and the
Wolfsberg Group”.
2.3 From 2012 to September 2015, MAS conducted a series of inspections that
covered banks’ trade finance activities. This guidance paper provides details on
pertinent observations arising from MAS’ on-site inspections as well as guidance on
identifying trade-based financial crime risks and implementing measures to mitigate
such risks. Sound practices and areas where further attention is needed are also
highlighted in this document.
° The FATF is an inter-governmental body established in 1989. The objectives of the FATF are to set
standards and promote effective implementation of legal, regulatory and operational measures for
combating ML/TF and other related threats to the integrity of the international financial system.
“The APG is an autonomous and collaborative international organisation founded in 1997 in
Bangkok, Thailand consisting of 41 members including Singapore, and a number of international and
regional observers. APG members and observers are committed to the effective implementation and
enforcement of internationally accepted standards against money laundering and the financing of
terrorism, in particular the Forty Recommendations.
° The Wolfsberg Group is an association of thirteen banks that has developed a broad range of
standards and a diverse program of activities which address ML risks and other financial crime risks,
such as corruption, TF and sanctions.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 4

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
A Risk Assessment of Trade Finance Business
2.4 Banks typically perform a risk assessment of their trade finance business as
part of their overall risk management framework to better understand the financial
crime risks they are exposed to as well as to assess whether control measures are in
place to mitigate these risks. The trade finance-specific risk assessment could be
part of the broader risk assessment performed by banks at the enterprise-wide level
in Singapore. Such an assessment allows banks to identify the risk areas in their
trade finance activities and determine whether the controls in place are robust. The
enterprise-wide risk assessment is intended to enable the bank to better understand
its vulnerability to ML/TF risks, including the financial crime risks presented by its
trade finance business, and forms the basis for the bank’s overall risk-based
approach.
Attention Areas
Banks should conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of their trade finance
business, taking into account their customer base, geographical locations,
products offered, and emerging risks if any, in determining the financial crime
risks they are exposed to. Banks should also assess the adequacy of their risk
management framework and internal controls to mitigate such risks.
B Due Diligence
2.5 The level of financial crime risks posed by customers and trade finance
transactions differs based on their business, geographical locations, and risk profiles.
Banks are expected to establish a sufficiently robust due diligence process to ensure
that higher risk customers and transactions are subjected to more extensive due
diligence measures and closer monitoring of transactions.
2.6 A typical trade finance transaction involves a number of different parties. The
parties range from buyer and seller, to their respective agents, bankers and
intermediaries. In general, banks should treat an instructing party in a trade finance
transaction as their customer and conduct appropriate due diligence measures in
accordance with a risk-based approach.
2. The due diligence checks that should be conducted by banks depend on the
role of the bank in the trade finance transaction. Given that the risk taken on by the
bank at each stage of the transaction differs, there would also be a corresponding
difference in the type and extent of due diligence measures required. The instructing
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 5

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
party of a bank is determined by the bank’s role in the transaction, e.g. for import
documentary Letters of Credit (“L/Cs”), the instructing party for the L/C issuing bank
is the L/C applicant; for export L/Cs, the instructing party for the L/C
advising/confirming bank is the L/C issuing bank or the first advising bank. Banks
should establish guidelines to determine the instructing party, and the extent of due
diligence measures to be conducted, in a trade finance transaction.
Additional Information to be obtained for Trade Finance Transactions
2.8 In addition to the customer due diligence requirements set out in the MAS
Notices to Financial Institutions on Prevention of Money Laundering and Countering
the Financing of Terrorism (thereafter referred to as “the Notice”)°, banks are
expected to obtain further information to assess the financial crime risks specific to a
trade finance transaction.
2.9 Banks should obtain additional information on other relevant parties (Such as
those set out in paragraph 2.10) to a trade finance transaction, taking into account
the bank’s role in the transaction. Banks should develop clear procedures on the
additional information required under various circumstances for all the relevant
parties, including beneficiaries of L/Cs and documentary collections, agents and third
parties identified.
2.10 The type and timing of the additional information obtained depend on the
bank’s role in the transaction and should be in line with a risk-based approach. This
also applies to cases where a bank provides credit lines for, or facilitates open
account trades (e.g. invoice financing, pre-shipment financing, inventory financing) of
its customers. Examples of such additional information are —
(a) trading partners or counterparties of the customer (including buyers, sellers,
shippers, consignees, notifying parties, shipping agents, etc.):
(b) nature of the goods traded;
(c) country or countries of origin of the goods (including whether the goods
originate from any sanctioned country);
(d) trade cycle;
° The applicable MAS Notices include MAS Notice 626, MAS Notice 1014 and MAS Notice 824.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 6

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
(e) flag of vessel, flag history and name history (to check whether it is related to
any country in the list of sanctioned countries);
(f) name and unique identification number (e.g. International Maritime
Organisation (“IMO”) number) of any vessel proposed to be used (e.g. to
better identify if it is ultimately owned by a sanctioned party):
(g) beneficial owner, commercial operator and registered owner of the vessel
involved in the transaction to trace the history of former ship owners with
focus on country of residence;
(h) port of loading, ports-of-call and port of discharge (including whether the
goods originate from, or are sold to any sanctioned country) and the trade
routes proposed to be used; and
(i) market prices of goods such as commodities to assess if further information
should be obtained where the contract price differs significantly from the
market price to mitigate financial crime risk.
2.11 Banks should verify information obtained on a trade finance transaction (e.g.
against commercial documents, transport documents, and on a risk-sensitive basis,
from independent or public sources) to authenticate the details of the transaction.
This should also apply to cases where banks provide credit lines for, or otherwise
facilitate, open account trades (e.g. invoice financing, pre-shipment financing,
inventory financing) of their customers.
2.12 The following are examples of trade finance transactions and the additional
information that banks are encouraged to obtain either at the time of customer on-
boarding or at the time of the transaction —
(a) Import (Outward) L/Cs
- The L/C issuing bank should enquire from the L/C applicant the countries
with which the applicant trades and the trading routes utilised, the goods
traded, and the type and nature of parties the applicant does business with
(e.g. customers and suppliers). Where possible, the L/C issuing bank
should also enquire about the role and location of third parties (e.g.
shipping agents, inspection companies and warehouses) used by the
applicant in relation to the business.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 7

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
(b) Export (Inward) L/Cs
- Where the advising/confirming bank has an ongoing relationship with the
L/C issuing bank, the bank may rely on due diligence measures already
performed.
- Where the advising/confirming bank does not have an ongoing
relationship with the L/C issuing bank, the advising/confirming bank
should ensure that it authenticates any L/C received from the L/C issuing
bank and that the relevant parties are subjected to the bank’s sanctions
screening process.
- Where the L/C is issued by an L/C issuing bank in a country considered to
present higher financial crime risks or if the nature of the transaction
presents higher financial crime risks, the advising/confirming bank should
conduct enhanced measures as appropriate.
(c) Bonds/Guarantees
- Banks are reminded to comply with the Notice requirements in relation to
the instructing party/applicant as a customer of the bank. The bank should
also subject the beneficiary to its sanctions screening process.
(d) Bank-to-Bank Trade Financing
- Financing banks should ensure that due diligence on the borrowing bank
has been performed in line with the Notice requirements.
- Banks should also have a robust risk assessment framework to identify
higher risk transactions (e.g. by identifying higher risk contracting parties,
countries, types of goods and other terms in the L/C). For such higher risk
transactions, additional verification measures and AML/sanction checks
should be performed (e.g. obtaining certified true copies of underlying
commercial and transport documents).
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 8

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Sound Practices
As part of additional due diligence for trade finance transactions that present
higher financial crime risks, some banks perform checks against independent
sources and databases. These checks indicate the flag of the vessels used and
also the previous names of the vessel, if any, and facilitate the banks’
assessment of the risks posed if irregularities are detected.
Attention Areas
Some banks had a practice of issuing L/Cs with unnamed ports of loading and
discharge for commodity traders if the trade routes were not confirmed at the
point of L/C application. Banks should establish a process to follow up with
customers to obtain supporting documents to identify the ports of loading and
discharge, vessels involved, etc. if such information is not provided at L/C
issuance.
Additional Information to be obtained for Trade Finance Transactions that present
higher financial crime risks
2.13 If, at the initial stage or during the course of any trade finance transaction, a
bank becomes aware that the transaction presents higher financial crime risks, the
bank is expected to obtain information, in addition to those set out in paragraph 2.9,
to assess —
(a) the transaction structure;
(b) the ports of call, including the route of the shipment, ensuring that it appears
to be logical with regard to transhipment points and the final destination;
(c) the legitimacy of the payment flows;
(d) the transaction against public sources of specialised data, documents or
information (e.g. the International Maritime Bureau) in relation to sea
transportation to verify the authenticity of the bills of lading and to confirm that
the shipment has taken place; and
(e) whether they are dual-use goods.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 9

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
In addition, the bank should conduct site visits and meetings with the instructing
party, where appropriate.
Invoice Financing
2.14 Banks regularly grant invoice financing facilities as part of their trade finance
business. For such invoice financing facilities, banks may accept summaries of
invoice details from selected customers in lieu of the actual invoices and shipping
documents.
2.15 Subsequent to providing invoice financing services to their customers, banks
should follow up with customers to obtain commercial invoices and transport
documents for the verification of the genuineness of the trades. Such verification
checks are typically performed by a function independent of the front office. Banks
should have a formal process in place to perform post-financing validation checks to
ensure that the information provided by the customers in the summaries of invoices
match the details in the actual trade documents.
2.16 Banks which implement validation checks on a sampling basis should ensure
that their sampling methodology is robust. A risk-based approach to the sampling
methodology should be applied such that higher risk profile customers and
transactions are targeted, and that the frequency of checks and number of samples
chosen are commensurate with the risks identified. Sample checks should also
include some lower risk accounts. The lack of checks exposes banks to risks since
errors in the information submitted by customers, such as invoice value, names of
vessels and shipping companies/agents etc. would remain undetected. The checks
are particularly important as the effectiveness of the bank’s AML/CFT sanctions
screening depends on the accuracy of such information. Such checks also serve to
deter customers from submitting false or inaccurate information in the invoice
summaries.
2.17 When granting invoice financing facilities, banks had, in the past, generally
taken into consideration only the credit quality of the customers. However,
awareness of financial crime risks in this regard has increased in recent times. To
mitigate financial crime and other legal, regulatory and reputational risks, other
considerations should include the bank’s knowledge of the customer and_ its
business activities, account conduct, the customer’s reputation in the industry as well
as the customer’s governance structure and control culture, amongst others.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 10

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Attention Areas
(a) Post-financing, banks should follow up with their invoice financing
customers to obtain commercial invoices and transport documents to
perform verification checks to ensure that the trades are genuine.
(b) Banks should formalise a process to perform post-financing validation
checks on inaccuracies in the invoice summaries which would otherwise
remain undetected.
(c) For the approval of invoice financing facilities, other considerations
besides the credit quality of the customers should be formalised in the
bank’s policies, even if they are taken into consideration in practice.
Dual-Use Goods
2.18 Dual-use goods are goods, software and technology normally used for civilian
purposes but which may have military applications, or may contribute to the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.’ Interpretation of “dual-use” requires a
degree of technical knowledge that checkers of L/Cs may not always possess. In
addition, the description of the goods may appear in the documents using a wording
which does not allow the identification of such goods as “dual-use”. Without the
necessary technical qualifications and knowledge across a wide range of products
and goods, the ability of a bank to understand the varying applications of dual-use
goods will be limited. However, banks may refer to sources of information that may
be relevant to assessing the risk that particular goods may be “dual-use”, or
otherwise subject to restrictions on their movement (e.g. Strategic Goods Control List
from Singapore Customs® and European Commission's TARIC database’).
2.19 It is important that banks ensure that staff are aware of the risks of dual-use
goods and the common types of goods with dual use, and are capable of identifying
red flags which suggest that dual-use goods may be supplied for illicit purposes.
References to public sources of information and other guidance should be provided
to staff and formalised in the bank’s policies and procedures to ensure that dual-use
goods in trade finance transactions can be identified whenever possible. Such
transactions should be highlighted and escalated as part of the bank’s due diligence
process.
’ Definition retrieved from http://ec.europa.eu/trade/import-and-export-rules/export-from-eu/dual-use-
controls/
For more information and details on the Strategic Goods Control List, please refer to the following
link - http:/Awww.customs.gov.sq/stgqc/leftNav/str/Overview.html
* For more information and details with regard to the European Commission’s TARIC database,
please refer to the following link -
http://ec.europa.eu/taxation customs/dds2/taric/taric_consultation.jsp?Lang=en
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 11

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
C Sanctions Controls
Screening
2.20 Sanctions screening is a major component of transactional due diligence to
ensure that banks are not dealing with sanctioned individuals or entities. Banks
perform name screening on the key parties to each transaction. Besides screening
the parties to the transaction, such as the seller of the goods, banks should also
screen the vessel used to transport the underlying goods, the shipping company, any
agents or third parties present in the transaction, and know the ports of call of the
vessel for the particular transaction flow (origin port, destination port) where possible.
It is also a good practice for banks to find out the recent voyage history of the vessel.
If the vessel had docked at embargoed countries during its previous voyages, it
could be a trigger for banks to conduct further checks as the transaction could
involve dealings with sanctioned entities or embargoed goods.
2.21 Banks should be aware of any adverse developments pertaining to some
parties (e.g. addition to list of designated individuals/entities) present in the trade
finance transaction, between the inception of the trade finance transaction and
submission of trade documents since there could be significant time difference
during this period. Furthermore, banks are expected to perform sanctions screening
both at the inception of the trade finance transaction and at the point of submission
of the trade finance documents as some of the transactional details, e.g. vessel used
to transport the cargo, ports of call, may not be known at trade inception and hence
would not have been screened at that stage.
Sound Practices
(a) Many banks perform name screening on a_ transactional level.
Transactional information is typically keyed into systems to enable
detection of sanctioned customer names, ports and vessels.
(b) For other relevant information not keyed into systems, some banks
perform manual name screening or manual compliance checks against the
bank’s sanctions lists.
(c) Some banks conduct additional checks for transactions where there are
screening hits against vessel names, discrepancies or ambiguity in trade
documents, transhipments or the use of multiple ports. These additional
checks include location checks of vessels (such as the last known port and
destination) against third party independent sources. This additional
information helps the banks in their assessment of potential suspicious
transactions.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 12

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Attention Areas
(a) Banks should have formalised guidelines on the parties that require
screening. This would ensure that bank staff performing screening checks
are aware which parties have to be screened and there are no cases
where certain parties in a trade finance transaction are omitted.
(b) If banks obtain additional information from their customers (e.g. the
customer's trading partners), screening of these trading partners should be
performed. Screening of parties named in trade documents should also be
performed in all instances.
2.22 In invoice financing, customers which are permitted to submit summaries of
invoices usually provide certain transactional information, including the commercial
invoice number, currency, amount, issue date, maturity date and buyer/seller names
of each transaction. The invoice financing banks should require customers to provide
the full set of transactional information in the summaries on a pre-financing basis as
far as possible. Other transactional information present in commercial invoices and
transport documents which banks should require customers to provide include
names of vessels, shipping companies/agents, ports of loading and discharge, and
description of goods. This is to ensure that the banks minimally screen the full set of
transactional information to satisfy themselves that they have not directly or indirectly
financed a trade finance transaction with or for the benefit of a designated
person/entity. Policies and procedures should provide guidance to staff on the type
of transactional information required to be obtained for invoice financing.
Attention Areas
In accepting summaries of invoices, banks should ensure that the summaries
contain the relevant information required to conduct the necessary
review/sanctions screening at the pre-financing stage. Transactional information
present in commercial invoices and transport documents should be subject to
review and sanctions screening.
Audit Trail
2.23 Banks maintain audit trails of the sanctions screening performed for trade
finance transactions. Such audit trails are important as they allow banks to ascertain
that the requisite screenings are comprehensively and adequately performed and
also allow for effective second-level post-transaction reviews. Banks are also
expected to have adequate documentation of the review process for resolving
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 13

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
screening hits, including justifications and reasons for closing off screening hits as
false hits.
Attention Areas
Banks should ensure that documentation of the review process for screening hits
is maintained and accessible. Justifications for closing off screening hits as false
hits should be properly documented to facilitate second-level post transaction
reviews, and audits.
D Trade-Based Money Laundering Controls
Assessment of Deviations from Market Prices
2.24 Checks on the reasonableness of invoice prices of goods/commodities
against prevailing market prices (referred to as “price checks”) are not only useful to
mitigate credit risks; they also serve to identify potential fraud and ML/TF activities
arising from over/under-invoicing of transactions.
2.25 Banks should perform price checks, particularly where market prices are
available, minimally on a sampling basis. Policies and procedures should be clearly
set up to guide staff in performing such checks, including establishing the level of
acceptable price variance, and escalation procedures when significant differences in
prices are identified.
2.26 Banks could consider setting different thresholds for different types of
underlying goods/commodities. There should also be periodic assessments of
whether the thresholds continue to be reasonable based on prevailing market prices
for the goods/commodities.
2.27 Price checks should be performed by functions independent of front office so
as to enhance the effectiveness of the checks and minimise conflicts of interest.
2.28 There should be guidelines in place for the selection of reference prices for
the purpose of performing price checks.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 14

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Sound Practices
A bank has implemented an in-house system to detect differences between
transacted and market prices which facilitated its assessment of price deviations.
Attention Areas
Banks should put in place policies and procedures to guide staff in their
assessments and checks on transactional prices for deviations. In addition, banks
should set out the escalation procedures to manage transactions where
significant differences in prices are identified.
Related Party Transactions
2.29 There are inherently higher risks of fraud and financial crime associated with
the financing of transactions between a customer and its related parties.
2.30 Some banks recognise this risk and require related party transactions to be
escalated for further scrutiny. Banks could consider implementing additional
safeguards to mitigate the risks arising from related party transactions, e.g. requiring
documentary evidence to verify the authenticity of these related party transactions.
2.31 Banks’ front office would obtain information about a customer’s business and
its present and future trading profile, including information on the customer's related
parties, and where applicable, the typical related party transactions that occur in the
course of the customer’s business. However, such information may not be made
available to the middle or back offices for additional due diligence, such as checks
on the rationale for the trade flows and pricing, to be performed on the individual
transactions.
2.32 The middle office/back office staff processing the trade finance transactions
would be better informed when identifying related party transactions if there is
effective sharing of information between the front office, which would have collected
information on their customers’ related entities as part of the customer on-boarding
and regular review process, and the control or operations units processing the trade
transactions.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 15

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Attention Areas
(a) Banks should put in place policies and procedures to guide staff in
identifying related party transactions of customers.
(b) Besides efforts to identify related party transactions in practice, there
should be a formal process in place to identify related party transactions
and to trigger relevant follow-up actions to ascertain the authenticity of
such transactions.
(c) Middle/back office staff should perform additional due diligence when
processing related party transactions, to minimise fraud and financial crime
risks.
Underlying Goods Financed
2.33 Banks should formalise processes to identify unusual transaction patterns that
are inconsistent with the customers’ profiles for further reviews and investigations. In
addition to checking for inconsistencies in customers’ trading patterns, banks are
encouraged to check the descriptions of goods stated in the trade documents,
particularly for descriptions which are unclear or worded in a foreign language.
Banks should, on a best effort basis, determine whether the underlying goods
financed are embargoed goods and there should be special attention paid to dual-
use goods.
2.34 Banks should ensure that there are effective channels for information
obtained by the front office during the customer on-boarding and ongoing review
processes, which should include information on typical goods the customer deals in,
to be shared with the middle and back office staff. This is to facilitate checks on the
underlying goods by the middle and back office staff in their day-to-day processing of
transactions.
2.35 The front office should also regularly review customer transactions for
inconsistencies with the customers’ profiles.
Controls over Multiple Financing of Invoices
2.36 When invoice financing facilities are granted, banks should ensure that there
are proper processes and controls in place to detect if customers have submitted the
same invoice for financing more than once.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 16

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Sound Practices
A few banks have enhanced systems to detect duplicate/multiple entries of the
same invoice number that was keyed in for processing.
E Transaction Monitoring & Filing of Suspicious Transaction Reports
2.37 Banks should ensure that their transaction monitoring processes and systems
are robust to enable suspicious transactions to be flagged, investigated and
escalated. Regular compliance checks, especially on transactions that were not
escalated, should be performed for quality assurance purposes.
2.38 Most cases of trade finance transactions escalated to Compliance and
Management for attention were in relation to potential breach of sanctions related to
PF. There were generally fewer cases of trade finance transactions escalated or
further investigated due to potential ML concerns. Consequentially, fewer Suspicious
Transaction Reports (“STRs”) were filed on trade finance transactions in relation to
suspicion of ML. Banks should ensure that transactions suspected of being used for
ML purposes are duly investigated and promptly escalated to the Compliance
function or senior management. If there are grounds to suspect that a customer is
using trade finance to launder money, finance terrorism or facilitate PF, STRs must
be promptly filed. The bank should also minimally subject the customer account to
enhanced monitoring and consider rejecting the transaction.
Sound Practices
For suspicious transactions with insufficient grounds to be rejected, banks subject
the customer to enhanced monitoring.
F Policies and Procedures & Training
2.39 Most banks have controls and procedures in place to address the risk of
dealing with sanctioned parties and vessels for trade finance transactions. Given the
increasing propensity for trade to be used as a channel to launder illicit funds,
policies and procedures which detail the various money laundering methods that
could be employed by criminals in trade finance transactions, including the red flag
indicators mentioned in para 2.41, would be beneficial in raising the level of staff
awareness. These policies and procedures should define the responsibilities for
different functional areas of the bank to ensure that the relevant parties understand
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 17

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
their AML/CFT responsibilities when processing trade finance transactions. This
could include formalised guidelines on the circumstances under which a transaction
should be escalated to Compliance and senior management and/or subjected to
closer monitoring.
2.40 Banks should regularly review the need to allocate more resources towards
training to raise the awareness of staff to the financial crime risks associated with
trade finance and the measures to mitigate such risks. Case studies and relevant
industry publications could be included in the training to highlight high risk areas that
require more attention from staff or common typologies.
Sound Practices
The Compliance function of a bank conducts regular interviews with selected
front office employees to ascertain if staff have a good understanding of the due
diligence requirements, the financial crime risks associated with trade finance
transactions, and the bank’s mitigating measures.
Attention Areas
(a) Banks should have more specific guidance, policies and procedures in
place to address the overall risks of trade-based money laundering.
(b) There should also be adequate and specific training conducted by banks
on the financial crime risks prevalent in the trade finance business for all
relevant staff.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 18

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
G Potential Red Flags
2.41 Banks should pay attention to the following red flags when processing trade
finance transactions of their customers as they could be indicative of a transaction
being used for financial crime purposes. These examples are not exhaustive, and
the presence of a single red flag indicator does not mean that the transaction is
illegal. A confluence of multiple indicators would nonetheless suggest that the
transaction is Suspicious, and appropriate due diligence measures, including STR
filing, should be adopted by the bank.
Transactions with Higher Financial Crime Risk Elements
e The commodity is shipped to, through or from a jurisdiction designated (e.g.
by the FATF or United Nations) as “higher risk” for financial crime activities
e The type of commodity shipped is designated as “higher risk” for financial
crime activities”°
e Potentially higher risk activities, including activities/goods that may be subject
to export/import restrictions
Inconsistencies and Transactions Which Do Not Make Economic Sense
e Underlying goods, size of transaction, value of transaction, counterparties
involved in the transaction, are inconsistent with the customer’s usual
business pattern, or deviate from the customer's business strategy.
e Mis-declaration of value (e.g. over-valuation) of goods
e The method of payment" or financing'* appears inconsistent with the risk
characteristics of the transaction
e Unexplained, unnecessary or last minute changes to a specific transaction or
payment instructions
e Unusual payment terms, where payments and interest rates substantially
deviate from expected market practice or prevailing rates
e Tenor of the financing is not in line with the nature of the underlying
commodity financed, which could be a perishable good
e Transaction does not make economic sense
e Goods are inconsistent with the country of import/export
"For example, high-value, low-volume goods (e.g. certain IT and electronic products), which have
high turnover rates and present valuation difficulties.
"For example, (i) the use of an advance payment for a shipment from a new supplier in a high-risk
country, or (ii) direct payment through open accounts from banks to overseas suppliers on trade credit
application of the domestic trader.
° For example, use of factoring companies to finance trade transactions between related companies.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 19

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Transport document shows transhipment through one or more jurisdictions for
no apparent economic reason
Related Party/Third Party Transactions
Transaction is between or involves related parties
Same address used for different transacting parties, usage of registered
agent’s address, or other address inconsistencies
Unexplained or unnecessary parties to the transaction and who appear
evasive about their identity on further enquiries
Transaction involves the receipt of cash (or other payments) from third party
entities that have no apparent connection with the transaction
Payment or payment requests of proceeds to a third party unrelated to
customer
Transactions with Unexplained/ Frequent Documentary Changes
Transaction involves the use of repeatedly amended or frequently extended
L/Cs without legitimate commercial reasons
Significant amendments in L/C without reasonable justification; including
changes to beneficiary or stated location of payment
Non-standard clauses or phrases (e.g. L/C is unconditional, divisible and
assignable, transactions requiring proof of product, transferable and
assignable without being used) included in L/C
Unauthorised amendments or indications of tampering to trade documents
Transactions with Multiple Discrepancies/ Missing Information
Receipt of L/C as an unauthenticated SWIFT or untested telex message
Discrepancies in country of beneficiary's account and beneficiary's stated
location/ business operations
Physical trade-related documents appear fraudulent or altered
Variances between the description of the goods on the transport document
and the invoice
Discrepancies between the value of the invoice and current market value of
the product
The quantity of the goods exceeds the known capacity of the shipping
container or tanker capacity
Abnormal weights for the goods compared to the quantity of goods
Inappropriately sized or non-typical type of vessel used to transport the goods
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 20

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Absence of documentation or refusal to provide documents to prove shipment
of goods
Bill of lading describes containerised cargo but no container numbers are
evidenced
Usage of Front/ Shell Companies and Complex Structures in Transactions
Transaction involves the use of front (or shell) companies
Attempts made to circumvent/disguise countries involved in the trade
Unnecessarily complex transaction structure possibly designed to obscure the
true nature of the transaction
Multiple intermediaries used for a transaction
Series of cross border transactions in the same goods between related
companies
Other Red Flag Indicators
Future dated bill of lading
Unusual triggers for payment (e.g. before goods are shipped, no
documentation required, etc.)
Customer shares the same address as a sanctioned entity
Inability or reluctance to provide clear answers to queries from the bank in
relation to the nature as well as the commercial and technical aspects of the
transaction
Dual-use goods used in a transaction, which could also be coupled with
additional red flags such as military or government buyers, unusual shipping
route, reluctance on part of customer or purchasing agent to offer information
on end use of the item, product is not in line with the buyer’s business, or
product is incompatible with the technical level of the country to which it is
shipped to.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 21

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
3 CORRESPONDENT BANKING
3.1. Correspondent banking relationships expose banks to inherently higher
ML/TF risks, largely because, when executing the instructions of respondent
financial institutions (“Fls”), banks have limited information available regarding the
nature or purposes of the underlying transactions.
A Due Diligence on Respondent Fls
3.2 Banks that undertake correspondent banking activities typically conduct an
assessment of the ML/TF risks associated with such activities. Such an assessment
helps the bank to identify, assess and understand the risks associated with providing
correspondent banking services so that the bank can apply appropriate due diligence
and risk mitigation measures. The bank’s assessment of the ML/TF risks specific to
correspondent banking could be a part of its enterprise-wide risk assessment.
3.3 Generally, banks perform due diligence measures on respondent Fils in
accordance with the Notice. These measures include gathering adequate information
about the respondent FI, determining from available sources the reputation of the
respondent FI and the quality of supervision over the respondent Fl, and assessing
the respondent Fl’s AML/CFT controls.
Attention Areas
Due diligence measures on respondent FIs may be performed centrally, for
instance by Head Office (“HO”) or a hub location. Despite such arrangements,
banks are still responsible for assessing the ML/TF risks they are exposed to
through such correspondent banking relationships. At a minimum, banks should
assess that the due diligence measures performed by HO or another entity within
the group are adequate and meet the requirements of the Notice. Banks should
also refer to paragraph 4-6(b)(i) and (ii) of the Guidelines to the Notice when
performing assessment of the ML/TF risks of countries and jurisdictions.
Assessing the Suitability of the Respondent FI
3.4 As part of a robust information gathering process, banks obtain information on
the respondent FI and its management, including the shareholding structure,
beneficial owners, directors and senior management of the respondent Fis. Using a
risk-based approach, banks make inquiries and perform due diligence checks on the
beneficial owners, connected parties and senior management of these respondent
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 22

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Fils. Due diligence checks performed include name screening to identify sanctioned
parties and Politically Exposed Persons (“PEP”). Banks’ policies and procedures
establish the type of information to be obtained as part of the bank’s due diligence
measures.
3.5 Banks’ assessments typically take into account the respondent FIl’s reputation
and the quality of supervision over the respondent FI. Banks could rely on
information from the FATF mutual evaluation reports and statements on countries or
jurisdictions as either being subject to countermeasures or having strategic
AML/CFT deficiencies, and mutual evaluation reports by FATF-style regional bodies.
Banks may also refer to publicly available information from competent national
authorities and any restrictive measures imposed on a country, particularly
prohibitions on providing correspondent banking or other similar services. In this
regard, correspondent banks should pay particular attention when establishing or
continuing relationships with respondent FIs located in jurisdictions that are subject
to FATF countermeasures, or have strategic AML/CFT deficiencies, or have been
identified as being “non-cooperative” in the fight against ML and TF.
3.6 In assessing respondent Fls’ controls in regard to their ML/TF risk
management, some banks relied on their respondent Fis’ responses to the
Wolfsberg Questionnaire, which has been designed to provide an overview of a
bank's AML/CFT policies and practices. While this is one possible source for banks
to understand the AML/CFT policies and controls of their respondent Fis, banks are
expected to perform their own internal assessment on whether their respondent Fls
have adequate controls against financial crime.
3.7 Banks’ assessments should typically include discussions with the respondent
FIs’ senior management and Compliance functions on their AML/CFT awareness,
risk management and compliance, and policies and procedures to combat ML/TF
risks. It may also be useful to have discussions with the home regulators on the
AML/CFT regulations and controls in respondent Fls’ countries, and the standards of
compliance by these respondent Fls. Where risks are assessed to be higher, the due
diligence measures could also include a review of respondent Fls’ policies and
procedures, so as to better understand the ML/TF risks and compliance frameworks
of the respondent Fils. Banks should ensure that these due diligence measures are
not limited to completing “check boxes” in questionnaires and encompass qualitative
assessments of the ML/TF risks posed by the respondent FI.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 23

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Sound Practices
In assessing the respondent FI’s reputation and the quality of supervision over
respondent FIs, some banks have adopted the following measures:
(a) Evaluate and perform a risk assessment of global regulators. The factors
considered as part of the risk assessment include whether the regulator
had put in place AML/CFT regulations and supervision in line with FATF
standards, and the corruption index within the country, among others.
(b) Perform enhanced due diligence measures for respondent FIs located in
jurisdictions that have strategic AML/CFT deficiencies or have been
identified as “non-cooperative” in the fight against ML and TF.
Attention Areas
(a) Banks should identify and perform name screening on the respondent FI’s
beneficial owners, senior management and officers such as the Chief
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer to
determine whether the respondent FI has connections to sanctioned
parties or PEPs.
(b) On the quality of supervision over respondent Fis, some banks need to
better document their assessment on the reputation of the respondent FIs
and the quality of supervision over the respondent FIs.
(c) A review of the respondent FI’s responses to the AML/CFT questionnaire
should be performed and the outcome of such a review should be
factored into the assessment of the respondent FI’s ML/TF risk rating.
Banks should also follow up with respondent FIs that do not reply to such
questionnaires.
(d) Banks should not base their assessment of the adequacy of AML/CFT
controls of the respondent FI on the AML/CFT questionnaire completed
by the respondent FI without further due diligence to establish the quality
of the respondent FI’s AML/CFT controls. Such due diligence could
include a more detailed discussion of AML/CFT controls with senior
management and the Compliance function of the respondent FI, to
assess its AML/CFT awareness, risk management and compliance with
international standards.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 24

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Due Diligence in relation to “Nested” Correspondent Banking Relationships
3.8 Due diligence in relation to “nested” correspondent banking relationships*°
needs to be robust. Such downstream clearing relationships operated by the
respondent Fl for other Fls with weaker AML/CFT controls, could present higher
ML/TFE risks, if the transactions flow through the correspondent bank. Banks should
ensure that appropriate enquires are made on “nested” relationships, including
carrying out visits to and discussions with the respondent FI and ensuring that the
respondent Fl has conducted adequate due diligence on such relationships. In this
regard, banks should institute more due diligence measures when establishing and
continuing correspondent banking accounts where there are “nested” relationships.
More attention should be accorded to new relationships and respondent Fils
domiciled in high risk jurisdictions.
Sound Practices
(a) Some banks have a committee consisting of front office, risk and
compliance representatives for reviewing due diligence measures
performed on respondent FI clients.
(b) Some banks’ due diligence measures include site visits or calls to
understand the respondent FI’s AML/CFT controls, customer base and
whether nested banking relationships are involved.
Attention Areas
(a) Banks should put in place a process to identify “nested” correspondent
banking relationships and set out policies and procedures for assessing
such “nested” relationships.
(b) Banks should consider assessing the AML/CFT controls of downstream
correspondent clearers and request the list of downstream correspondent
clearers to which their respondent FIs provide downstream clearing
services, and perform enhanced due diligence through screening checks
on these downstream respondent Fis. These requirements should be
formally updated in the banks’ policies and procedures to ensure a
consistent assessment of such downstream clearing relationships.
'S Nested correspondent banking refers to the use of a bank’s correspondent relationship by a
number of respondent Fls (also known as “correspondent clearers”) through their relationships with
the bank’s direct respondent FI to conduct transactions and obtain access to other financial services.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 25

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Prohibition against Establishing Correspondent Banking Relationships with Shell Fls
3.9 Correspondent banks should not enter into or continue a correspondent
banking relationship with a shell Fl, which is a FI incorporated in a jurisdiction in
which it has no physical presence or which is unaffiliated with a regulated financial
group. A correspondent bank should also satisfy itself that its respondent FI does not
permit the latter's accounts to be used by shell Fls.
B Due Diligence on Group Relationships
3.10 The inherent risks of correspondent banking exist even when the service is
offered to a bank’s own overseas branches, subsidiaries and affiliates, as they may
engage in business with customer types that pose varying levels of financial crime
risks and may operate in a jurisdiction that is of higher risk for financial crime. In
addition, the level of AML/CFT controls, and the corresponding risk profile, could
differ among the group entities.
3.11 Correspondent banks are required to carry out adequate due diligence on
each of the respondent Fls, even though they may be a branch, subsidiary or affiliate
of the parent bank, on which due diligence had been done. Banks are required to
take into account the potential ML/TF risks inherent in each respondent FI and the
AML/CFT controls in place. This serves to combat the risk of illicit or terrorist funds
flowing through the correspondent bank. All such relationships must be approved by
senior management.
Attention Areas
Banks should perform due diligence measures on branches and subsidiaries
within the group.
Cc Ongoing Monitoring of Respondent Fls
3.12 Banks perform ongoing monitoring of correspondent banking relationships for
all respondent Fils. The ongoing due diligence process includes the performance of
periodic due diligence reviews, sanctions screening, adverse news monitoring and
transaction monitoring.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 26

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
Ongoing Monitoring and Periodic Due Diligence Reviews
3.13 Periodic due diligence reviews should be performed for all respondent Fls to
determine if the respondent Fls, their connected persons (such as new or existing
executive directors), senior management and authorised signatories have been
listed as PEPs, sanctioned persons or persons involved in or suspected of being
involved in criminal activities since the initial due diligence was performed during the
on-boarding process.
3.14 Banks adopt a risk-based approach, usually based on the risk rating assigned
to each respondent FI, in determining the due diligence information to be reviewed
and updated on a regular basis. For instance, correspondent banking relationships
that pose higher risks are subject to annual reviews and closer account monitoring.
Some banks, as part of ongoing monitoring and periodic due diligence reviews,
review customers’ actual transaction activities vis-a-vis expected and past
transactions, in respect of volumes, values, frequency and nature of transactions.
For banks to perform such reviews, banks need to enquire and understand the
projected account activity of its respondent banks so as to better monitor the
transactions of the correspondent banking accounts.
Sound Practices
During the periodic due diligence review of respondent Fis, a bank analyses
transactions over the last three months to assess if the transaction patterns are
consistent with the respondent FI’s profile and projected account activity. Another
bank analyses and compares expected volume of transactions with the actual
volume of transactions over the past 12 to 24 months to detect any suspicious
activities during the annual due diligence review.
Attention Areas
Banks should perform ongoing monitoring and periodic due diligence reviews of
respondent FIs subsequent to customer on-boarding. Such periodic reviews
should also include a review of the respondent FI’s account activity.
Name Screening and Adverse News Monitoring
3.15 The ongoing due diligence process, particularly in regard to monitoring for
adverse news and screening of respondent Fls, needs improvement. This process
enables banks to monitor the reputation of respondent Fils and consider if the
adverse information would be sufficient cause to perform a review on the relationship
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 27

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
and if a higher risk rating should be assigned to the respondent FI. Audit trails of due
diligence measures, including any screening performed, should be maintained.
Attention Areas
Banks should take into account adverse news on respondent FIs in the public
domain and assess if such news would result in a change in the ML/TF risk rating
assigned to the respondent FIs and a corresponding change in the required level
of due diligence and ongoing monitoring required.
Transaction Monitoring
3.16 Correspondent banks should put in place appropriate transaction monitoring
policies and procedures to be able to detect any activity that is not consistent with
the purpose of the services provided to the respondent FI or which is not in line with
the usual or expected activities of the respondent Fl. As part of transaction
monitoring, banks should monitor flow of funds to sanctioned entities and countries,
to safeguard themselves from being used as a conduit for financial crime.
Transaction monitoring should be conducted for both AML and CFT purposes and
banks should consider the scenarios, parameters and thresholds used for the
monitoring of correspondent banking activities, taking into account that these
activities pose different risks compared to other activities of the bank. Banks should
conduct sanctions screening to ensure that the correspondent banking accounts are
not used for transactions with or payments to sanctioned parties.
Attention Areas
(a) Transaction monitoring systems and reports to detect unusual or
suspicious pattern of activities that are inconsistent with the purpose of
the services provided to or the expected activities of the respondent FIs
should be implemented and made available to staff for ongoing
monitoring purposes.
(b) Banks should ensure that their transaction monitoring systems are able to
detect unusual transaction patterns and also take into account detection
scenarios and thresholds specific to the banks’ correspondent banking
activities.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 28

AML/CFT CONTROLS IN TRADE FINANCE AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING
4 CONCLUSION
4.1 It is vital that banks establish and maintain robust AML/CFT risk management
systems and controls to manage and mitigate the financial crime risks arising from
trade finance and correspondent banking relationships. It is imperative that senior
management set the right tone at the top and inculcate an appropriate risk and
compliance culture amongst its staff, across all levels and functions, to ensure
effective implementation of a strong AML/CFT framework.
4.2 Banks are expected to periodically review their policies and processes taking
into account changes in the operating environments and regulatory developments.
Banks should also devote attention to raising the effectiveness of their AML/CFT
controls through adequate systems, processes, staff expertise and training.
4.3. For Singapore to maintain her reputation as a clean and trusted commercial,
trading and transportation hub, banks must ensure that their AML/CFT controls
remain effective and are commensurate with the size, nature and complexity of their
business.
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 29

