Monetary Authority of Singapore
GUIDELINES TO
MAS NOTICE PSNO1
ON PREVENTION OF
MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE
FINANCING OF
TERRORISM
2 APRIL 2024

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 DMtPOCUCTION 000... .. ccc ccecccecceeseeeceeeceeeeeeeceeeceeseaseceeeceeaeaaseeesenagegeseeseeaaaaaeeeeeseeeaeges 1
2 Notice Paragraph 2 — Definitions, Clarifications and Examples ..................0 5
3 Notice Paragraph 3 —Application of Notice ................ccccccceceesssseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 6
5 Notice Paragraph 5 — Assessing Risks and Applying a Risk-Based Approach 8
6 Notice Paragraph 6 — New Products, Practices and Technologies ............... 13
7 Notice Paragraph 7 — Customer Due Diligence ..................cccceeeeeceeeceeeeeeeeeees 14
8 Notice Paragraph 8 — Simplified Customer Due Diligence ...................:c0000 30
9 Notice Paragraph 9 — Enhanced Customer Due Diligence .................cce 32
12 Notice Paragraph 12 — Reliance on Third Parties ..................cccccceeeseeeeeeeeeeees 38
13 Notice Paragraph 13 —Correspondent ACCouni ...............:cccccssseseeeeeeeeaeeeeeees 40
14 Notice Paragraph 14 —Agency Arrangements ...............::ccsssesseeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeees 43
15 Notice Paragraph 15 — Wire Transfers ............cccccssesssseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeaeeseeeess 45
18 Notice Paragraph 18 — Suspicious Transactions Reporting ...................:26068 47
19 Notice Paragraph 19 — Internal Policies, Compliance, Audit and Training .... 49
| Other Key Topics — Guidance to Payment Service Providers on Proliferation
FINANCING oe ceececsseeeeceeeeeseeeeeeeeseessaaaeceeeseeeeeaseeessseaaeseeeeess 53
en Oo he 56
APPENDIX A— Examples of CDD Information for Customers (Including Legal
Persons/ArrangemMent) ...........:::sssssseeceeeeeeeeeeeeseesseeeseeeeeeeeeeneaneess 57
APPENDIX B — Examples of Suspicious Transactions ............ccccccccscsssssseeeseeeeeeees 61

For ease of reference, the chapter numbers in these Guidelines mirror the corresponding
paragraph numbers in the MAS Notice PSNO1 on Prevention of Money Laundering and
Countering the Financing of Terrorism - Holders of Payment Services Licence (Specified
Payment Services) (e.g. Chapter 2 of the Guidelines provides guidance in relation to
paragraph 2 of the Notice). Not every paragraph in the Notice has a corresponding
paragraph in these Guidelines and this explains why not all chapter numbers are utilised
in these Guidelines.

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-1
1-3
1-4
1-4-1
1-4-2
Introduction
These Guidelines provide guidance to all holders of a payment services licence
that carry on a business of providing a specified payment service, and all persons
exempt under section 13(1) of the Payment Services Act 2019 (“PS Act”) where
such person offers a specified product (collectively referred to as “payment service
providers’) on the requirements in MAS Notice PSNO1 on Prevention of Money
Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism — Holders of Payment
Services Licence (Specified Payment Services) (“the Notice”). These Guidelines
should be read in conjunction with the Notice.
The expressions used in these Guidelines have the same meanings as those found
in the Notice, except where expressly defined in these Guidelines or where the
context otherwise requires. For the purpose of these Guidelines, a reference to
“CDD measures” shall mean the measures as required by paragraphs 7, 8 and 9
of the Notice.
The degree of observance with these Guidelines by a payment service provider
may have an impact on the Authority’s overall risk assessment of the payment
service provider, including the quality of its board and senior management
oversight, governance, internal controls and risk management.
Key Concepts
Money Laundering
Money laundering (“ML”) is a process intended to mask the benefits derived from
criminal conduct so that they appear to have originated from a legitimate source.
Singapore's primary legislation to combat ML is the Corruption, Drug Trafficking
and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992. A payment service
provider should refer to the website of the Singapore Police Force’s Commercial
Affairs Department (“CAD”) for more information.
Generally, the process of ML comprises three stages, namely —
(a) Placement — The physical or financial disposal of the benefits derived from
criminal conduct.
(b) Layering — The separation of these benefits from their original source by
creating layers of financial transactions designed to disguise the ultimate
source and transfer of these benefits.
(c) Integration — The provision of apparent legitimacy to the benefits derived from
criminal conduct. If the layering process succeeds, the integration schemes
place the laundered funds back into the economy so that they re-enter the
financial system appearing to be legitimate funds.

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-4-3
1-4-4
1-4-5
1-4-6
1-4-7
1-4-8
1-4-9
1-4-10
Terrorism Financing
Acts of terrorism seek to influence or compel governments into a particular course
of action or to intimidate the public or a section of the public. Payment service
providers are reminded of the broad definitions of “terrorist” and “terrorist acts” set
out in the Terrorism (Suppression of Financing) Act 2002 (“TSOFA’).
Terrorists require funds to carry out acts of terrorism, and support their nefarious
activities. Terrorism financing (“TF”) is the act of providing these funds.
The funds or assets may be raised or obtained from criminal activities such as
robbery, drug-trafficking, kidnapping, extortion, fraud, or hacking of online
accounts. They can also be moved through various means, before being converted
and put to use for illicit purposes. In cases where they are related to criminal
activities, there may also be an element of ML involved to disguise the source of
funds or to move them.
However, terrorist acts and organisations may also be raised from legitimate
sources such as donations from charities, legitimate business operations, self-
funding by individuals, etc. Coupled with the fact that TF need not always involve
large sums of money, TF can be hard to detect and payment service providers
should remain vigilant.
Singapore’s primary legislation to combat TF is the TSOFA. Payment service
providers may also refer to the MAS website and the Inter-Ministry Committee on
Terrorist Designation’s website for more information.
The Three Lines of Defence
Each payment service provider is reminded that the ultimate responsibility and
accountability for ensuring compliance with anti-money laundering and countering
the financing of terrorism (“AML/CFT”) laws, regulations and notices rests with its
board of directors and senior management.
A payment service provider’s board of directors and senior management are
responsible for ensuring strong governance and sound ML/TF risk management
and controls at the payment service provider. While certain responsibilities can be
delegated to senior AML/CFT employees, final accountability rests with the
payment service provider’s board of directors and senior management. A payment
service provider should ensure a strong compliance culture throughout its
organisation, where the board of directors and senior management set the right
tone. The board of directors and senior management should also set a clear risk
appetite and ensure a strong compliance culture.
Business units (e.g. front office customer-facing functions of the payment service
provider's business premises) constitute the first line of defence in charge of
identifying, assessing and controlling the ML/TF risks of their business. The second
line of defence includes the AML/CFT compliance function, as well as other support
2

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-4-11
1-4-12
1-4-13
functions such as operations, human resource or technology, which work together
with the AML/CFT compliance function to identify ML/TF risks when they process
transactions or applications or deploy systems or technology. The third line of
defence is the payment service provider’s internal audit function or external audit
firm appointed by the payment service provider as set out in paragraph 1-413.
As part of the first line of defence, a payment service provider should ensure that
its customer-facing functions have in place robust controls to detect illicit activities.
This includes having sufficient resources to perform this function effectively, clear
communication of AML/CFT policies, procedures and controls, as well as adequate
training of the relevant staff in customer-facing functions. The payment service
provider’s policies, procedures and controls on AML/CFT should be clearly
specified in writing, and communicated to all relevant employees and officers in
the customer-facing functions. The payment service provider should adequately
train employees and officers to be aware of their obligations, and provide
instructions as well as guidance on how to ensure the payment service provider’s
compliance with prevailing AML/CFT laws, regulations and notices.
As the core of the second line of defence, the AML/CFT compliance function is
responsible for ongoing monitoring of the payment service provider’s fulfilment of
all AML/CFT duties by the payment service provider. This implies sample testing
and the review of exception reports. The AML/CFT compliance function should
alert the payment service provider’s senior management or the board of directors
if it believes that its employees or officers are failing or have failed to adequately
address ML/TF risks and concerns. Other support functions such as operations,
human resource or technology also play a role to help mitigate the ML/TF risks that
the payment service provider faces. The AML/CFT compliance function is typically
the contact point regarding all AML/CFT issues for domestic and foreign
authorities, including supervisory authorities, law enforcement authorities and
financial intelligence units.
As the third line of defence, the payment service provider’s internal audit function
plays an important role in independently evaluating the ML/TF risk management
framework and controls for purposes of reporting to the audit committee of the
payment service provider’s board of directors, or a similar oversight body. This
independent evaluation is achieved through the internal audit or equivalent
function’s periodic evaluations of the effectiveness of the payment service
provider's compliance with prevailing AML/CFT policies, procedures and controls.
Where there is no internal audit function, the payment service provider should
engage an external audit firm to audit the AML/CFT risk management framework
and controls, in the course of auditing the payment service business for the
submission of statutory returns to the Authority, and in so doing, to act as the third
line of defence. A payment service provider should establish policies for periodic
AML/CFT internal audits covering areas such as —

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-4-14
1-4-15
(a) the adequacy of the payment service provider’s AML/CFT policies, procedures
and controls in identifying ML/TF risks, addressing the identified risks and
complying with laws, regulations and notices;
(b) the effectiveness of the payment service provider’s implementation of the
payment service provider’s policies, procedures and controls;
(c) the effectiveness of the compliance oversight and quality control including
parameters and criteria for transaction alerts; and
(d) the effectiveness of the payment service provider’s training of relevant
employees and officers.
Governance
The payment service provider’s board of directors and senior management should
ensure that the payment service provider’s processes are robust and there are
adequate risk mitigating measures in place. The successful implementation and
effective operation of a risk-based approach to AML/CFT depends on the payment
service provider’s employees and officers having a good understanding of the
ML/TF risks inherent in the payment service provider's business.
A payment service provider’s board of directors and senior management should
understand the ML/TF risks the payment service provider is exposed to and how
the payment service provider's AML/CFT control framework operates to mitigate
those risks. This should involve the board of directors and senior management —
(a) receiving sufficient, timely and objective information to form an accurate
picture of the ML/TF risks including emerging or new risks, which the payment
service provider is exposed to through its activities or business relations;
(b) receiving sufficient and objective information to assess whether the payment
service provider’s AML/CFT controls are adequate and effective;
(c) receiving information on legal and regulatory developments and the impact
these have on the payment service provider’s AML/CFT framework; and
(d) ensuring that processes are in place to escalate important decisions that
directly impact the ability of the payment service provider to address and
control ML/TF risks, especially where AML/CFT controls are assessed to be
inadequate or ineffective.

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
2
2-1
2-2
2-5
2-6
2-8
2-9
Notice Paragraph 2 — Definitions, Clarifications and Examples
Connected Party
The term “partnership” as it appears in the definition of “connected party” includes
foreign partnerships. The term “manager” as it appears in limb (b) of the definition
of “connected party” takes reference from section 2(1) of the Limited Liability
Partnerships Act 2005 and section 28 of the Limited Partnerships Act 2008.
Examples of natural persons with executive authority in a company include the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. An example of a natural person with
executive authority in a partnership is the Managing Partner.
Legal Arrangements
In relation to the definition of “legal arrangement” in the Notice, examples of legal
arrangements are trust, fiducie, treuhand and fideicomiso.
Legal Persons
In relation to the definition of “legal person” in the Notice, examples of legal persons
are companies, bodies corporate, foundations, anstalt, partnerships, joint ventures
or associations.
Officer
A reference to “officer” refers to a payment service provider’s board of directors,
senior management or equivalent functions.
Payment for Goods or Services
In relation to the definition of “payment for goods or services” in the Notice, a
payment service provider should ascertain to a high degree of certainty that the
transactions are made only for the intended purposes of payment for goods or
services to merchants, and not for peer-to-peer transactions.
The payment service provider should adopt appropriate and reasonable means to
ascertain that the merchant, to whom the payment is intended for, is legitimately in
the business of providing goods or services. This may be achieved using
technological, contractual and/or other means (e.g. site visits). It should be noted
that “payment for goods or services” would not apply where payment is made to a
shell company, since there would be no provision of goods or services to speak of
normally.
For the avoidance of doubt, payment to individuals should not be considered as
payment for goods or services as it would be difficult to reliably determine whether
every payment is for actual payments for goods or services or peer-to-peer
transfers.
A payment service provider should also put in place mitigating measures to detect
and prohibit transactions that are not for payment of goods or services.

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
3-1
3-3
Notice Paragraph 3 — Application of Notice
MAS has assessed that a combination of certain characteristics of a payment
service provider, or product, would pose sufficiently low ML/TF risks, and therefore
exempted from certain AML/CFT requirements in the Notice. Nonetheless, given
rapid developments in the payment services sector, with the emergence of new
business models and payment methods, MAS and the relevant authorities will
regularly monitor and review the risks arising from this sector. We may adjust the
AML/CFT requirements and our supervisory expectations accordingly, after due
consultation.
With respect to paragraph 3.1(a) of the Notice, MAS has identified the following
activities (i.e. the specified payment services) as activities that carry ML/TF risks,
and which will be subject to the AML/CFT requirements under the Notice:
(a) account issuance services;
(b) domestic money transfer services;
(c) cross-border money transfer services; and
(d) money-changing services.
With respect to paragraph 3.1(b) of the Notice, a person exempt under section
13(1) of the PS Act (“exempted person”) is exempted from the requirements of the
relevant MAS Notice on Prevention of Money Laundering and Countering the
Financing of Terrorism that is applicable to the class of financial institutions the
person belongs to (“respective Notices”), and which the person is already subject
to. The exemption is pursuant to MAS Notice PSN10 on Prevention of Money
Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism — Exempt Payment Service
Provider, and applies only to the extent that such requirements relate to the
exempted person’s provision of payment services for a specified product. The
exempted person should continue to comply with the requirements under the
respective Notices in relation to its other business activities. For example, a bank
licensed under the Banking Act 1970 is exempted from MAS Notice 626 in relation
to payment services for a specified product, but must continue to comply with MAS
Notice 626 in relation to its banking and other services. In addition, the bank must
comply with the Notice, i.e. MAS Notice PSNO1, in relation to the provision of
payment services for the specified product.
With respect to paragraph 3.3 of the Notice, a payment service provider that offers
a product that is an exempted product should have in place processes and
procedures to verify and ensure that such exempted product(s) meet the definition
of “exempted product” as set out in paragraph 2 of the Notice, on an on-going
basis. The payment service provider does not have to comply with the paragraphs
of the Notice set out in paragraph 3.3, in relation to the exempted product(s).
For the avoidance of doubt, the requirements in the Notice would not apply to a
payment service provider that only offers payment services for exempted products.
6

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
Apayment service provider that provides payment services for exempted products,
in addition to other specified payment services, must comply with the requirements
in the Notice, but need not comply with the paragraphs set out in paragraph 3.3 of
the Notice in relation to such exempted product(s). In other words, the payment
service provider shall comply, in relation to all its businesses relating to payment
services (which may include exempted product(s) and other specified payment
services) with paragraphs 4 (Underlying Principles)’, 5 (Assessing Risks and
Applying a Risk-based Approach), 6 (New Products, Practices and Technologies),
16 (Record Keeping)? , 17 (Personal Data), 18 (Suspicious Transactions
Reporting), and 19 (Internal Policies, Compliance, Audit and Training) of the
Notice.
"In relation to the application of paragraph 4 (Underlying Principles), MAS will not require payment service providers,
where they offer exempted product(s), to comply with paragraph 4.1 (a) of the Notice in relation to the exempted product(s).
? In relation to the application of Section 16 (Record Keeping), MAS will not require payment service providers, where they
offer exempted product(s), to comply with record keeping requirements in relation to the retention of CDD information as
set out in paragraph 16.2(c) of the Notice insofar that it relates to the exempted product(s).
7

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
5-1
9-2
0-3
9-9
Notice Paragraph 5 — Assessing Risks and Applying a Risk-BasedApproach
Countries or Jurisdictions of its Customers
In relation to a customer who is a natural person, this refers to the nationality and
place of domicile, business or work. For a customer who is a legal person or
arrangement, this refers to both the country or jurisdiction of establishment,
incorporation, or registration, and, if different, the country or jurisdiction of
operations as well.
Other Relevant Authorities in Singapore
Examples include law enforcement authorities (e.g. Singapore Police Force, CAD,
Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau) and other government authorities (e.g.
Attorney General’s Chambers, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Law).
Risk Assessment
In addition to assessing the ML/TF risks presented by an individual customer, a
payment service provider shall identify and assess ML/TF risks on an enterprise-
wide level. This shall include a consolidated assessment of the payment service
provider’s ML/TF risks that exist across all its business units, product lines and
delivery channels. The enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment relates to a
payment service provider in the following ways:
(a) A payment service provider shall take into account the ML/TF risks of its
branches, subsidiaries and agents, including those outside Singapore, as part
of its consolidated assessment of its enterprise-wide ML/TF risks.
(b) A payment service provider which is the Singapore branch of an entity
incorporated outside Singapore may refer to an enterprise-wide ML/TF risk
assessment performed by the head office, group or regional AML/CFT
function, provided that the assessment adequately reflects the ML/TF risks
faced in the context of its operations in Singapore.
The enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment is intended to enable the payment
service provider to better understand its overall vulnerability to ML/TF risks and
forms the basis for the payment service provider’s overall risk-based approach.
A payment service provider’s senior management shall approve its enterprise-wide
ML/TF risk assessment and all employees and officers should give their full support
and active co-operation to the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment.
In conducting an enterprise-wide risk assessment, the broad ML/TF risk factors
that the payment service provider should consider include —

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
(a) in relation to its customers —
(i) target customer markets and segments;
(ii) profile and number of customers identified as higher risk;
(iii) volumes and sizes of its customers’ transactions and funds transfers,
considering the usual activities and the risk profiles of its customers.
(b) in relation to the countries or jurisdictions its customers are from, in or
transacting with, or where the payment service provider has operations in —
(i) Countries orjurisdictions the payment service provider is exposed to, either
through its own activities (including where its branches, subsidiaries and
agents operate in) or the activities of its customers (including the financial
institutions (“FI’) with whom the payment service provider provides
payment services to or engages to facilitate the provision of payment
services), especially countries or jurisdictions with relatively higher levels
of corruption, organised crime or inadequate AML/CFT measures, as
identified by the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”);
(ii) when assessing ML/TF risks of countries and jurisdictions, the following
criteria may be considered:
- reliable evidence of adverse news or relevant public criticism of a
country or jurisdiction, including FATF public documents on High Risk
and Other Monitored jurisdictions;
- independent and public assessment of the country’s or jurisdiction’s
overall AML/CFT regime such as FATF or FATF-Styled Regional
Bodies’ (“FSRBs”) Mutual Evaluation reports and the International
Monetary Fund (“IMF”)/World Bank Financial Sector Assessment
Programme Reports or Reports on the Observance of Standards and
Codes for guidance on the country’s or jurisdiction's AML/CFT
measures;
- the AML/CFT laws, regulations and standards of the country or
jurisdiction;
- implementation standards (including quality and effectiveness of
supervision) of the AML/CFT regime;
- whether the country orjurisdiction is a member of international groups
that only admit countries or jurisdictions which meet certain AML/CFT
benchmarks;

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-7
5-8
5-9
5-10
5-11
- contextual factors, such as political stability, maturity and sophistication
of the regulatory and supervisory regime, level of corruption, financial
inclusion, etc;
(c) in relation to the products, services, transactions and delivery channels of the
payment service provider —
(i) the nature, scale, diversity and complexity of the payment service
provider’s business activities and whether any of these factors introduces
additional risks or exacerbates specific risks;
(ii) the nature of products and services offered by the payment service
provider; and
(iii) the delivery channels, including whether the payment service provider
operates entirely online or in person, and the extent to which the payment
service provider deals directly with the customer, relies on third parties to
perform CDD measures or uses technology.
The scale and scope of the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment should be
commensurate with the nature and complexity of the payment service provider’s
business.
As far as possible, a payment service provider’s enterprise-wide ML/TF risk
assessment should entail both qualitative and quantitative analyses to ensure that
the payment service provider accurately understands its exposure to ML/TF risks.
A quantitative analysis of the payment service provider’s exposure to ML/TF risks
should involve evaluating data on the payment service provider’s activities using
the applicable broad risk factors set out in paragraph 5-6.
As required by paragraph 5.1(d) of the Notice, a payment service provider shall
take into account all its existing products, services, transactions and delivery
channels offered as part of its enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment.
In assessing its overall ML/TF risks, a payment service provider should make its
own determination as to the risk weights to be given to the individual factor or
combination of factors.
Singapore’s National ML/TF Risk Assessment (“NRA”) Report
A payment service provider should incorporate the results of Singapore’s NRA
Report into its enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment process. When performing
the enterprise-wide risk assessment, a payment service provider should take into
account any financial or non-financial sector that has been identified as presenting
higher ML/TF risks. A payment service provider should consider the NRA and its
enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment results when assessing the ML/TF risks
presented by customers from specific sectors.
10

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-12
5-13
5-14
9-15
The NRA also identifies certain prevailing crime types as presenting higher ML/TF
risks. A payment service provider should consider these results when assessing its
enterprise-wide ML/TF risks of products, services, transactions and delivery
channels and whether it is more susceptible to the higher risk prevailing crime
types. Where appropriate, a payment service provider should also take these
results into account as part of the payment service provider’s ongoing monitoring
of the conduct of customers’ accounts, and the payment service provider’s scrutiny
of customers’ transactions undertaken in the course of business relations or
transactions undertaken without an account being opened.
Risk Mitigation
The nature and extent of AML/CFT risk management systems and controls
implemented should be commensurate with the ML/TF risks identified via the
enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment. A payment service provider shall put in
place adequate policies, procedures and controls to mitigate the ML/TF risks.
A payment service provider’s enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment serves to
guide the allocation of AML/CFT resources by the payment service provider.
A payment service provider should assess the effectiveness of its risk mitigation
procedures and controls by monitoring the following:
(a) the ability to identify changes in a customer profile (e.g. Politically Exposed
Persons status) and transactional behaviour observed in the course of its
business;
(b) the potential for abuse of new business initiatives, products, practices and
services for ML/TF purposes;
(c) the compliance arrangements (through its internal audit or quality assurance
processes or external review);
(d) the balance between the use of technology-based or automated solutions with
that of manual or people-based processes, for AML/CFT risk management
purposes;
(e) the coordination between AML/CFT compliance and other functions (e.g.
antifraud, general compliance, trade operations etc.) of the payment service
provider;
(f) the adequacy of training provided to employees and officers and awareness of
the employees and officers on AML/CFT matters;
(g) the process of management reporting and escalation of pertinent AML/CFT
issues to the payment service provider’s senior management and board;
11

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
5-16
9-17
0-18
(h) the cooperation and coordination between the payment service provider and
regulatory or law enforcement agencies; and
(i) the performance of third parties relied upon by the payment service provider
to carry out CDD measures.
Documentation
The documentation should include —
(a) the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment by the payment service provider;
(b) details of the implementation of the AML/CFT risk management systems and
controls as guided by the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment;
(c) the reports to senior management on the results of the enterprise-wide ML/TF
risk assessment and the implementation of the AML/CFT risk management
systems and controls; and
(d) details of the frequency of review of the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk
assessment.
A payment service provider should ensure that the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk
assessment and the risk assessment information are made available to the
Authority upon request.
Frequency of Review
To keep its enterprise-wide risk assessments up-to-date, a payment service
provider should review its risk assessment at least once every two years or when
material trigger events occur, whichever is earlier. Such material trigger events
include, but are not limited to, the acquisition of new customer segments or delivery
channels, or the launch of new products and services by the payment service
provider. The results of these reviews should be documented and approved by
senior management even if there are no significant changes to the payment service
provider’s enterprise-wide risk assessment.
12

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6
6-1
6-2
6-3
Notice Paragraph 6 — New Products, Practices and Technologies
International developments of new technologies to provide financial services are
fast changing and growing at an accelerated pace. A payment service provider
shall keep abreast of such new developments and the ML/TF risks associated with
them.
A payment service provider’s assessment of ML/TF risks in relation to new
products, practices and technologies is separate from, and in addition to, the
payment service provider’s assessment of other risks such as credit risks,
operational risks or market risks. For example, in the assessment of ML/TF risks,
a payment service provider should pay attention to new products, practices and
technologies that deal with customer funds or the movement of such funds. These
assessments should be approved by senior management.
An example of a “new delivery mechanism’ as set out in paragraph 6 of the Notice
is mobile applications for payment services.
13

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-1-1
1-2-1
1-2-2
7-3-1
7-3-2
Notice Paragraph 7 — Customer Due Diligence
Notice Paragraph 7.2
Where There are Reasonable Grounds for Suspicion prior to the
Establishment of Business Relations or Undertaking any Transaction without
Opening an Account
In arriving at its decision for each case, a payment service provider should take
into account the relevant facts, including information that may be made available
by the authorities and conduct a proper risk assessment.
Notice Paragraphs 7.3 to 7.4
When CDD is to be Performed and Linked Transactions
Two or more transactions may be related or linked if they involve the same sender
or recipient. A payment service provider should be aware that transactions may be
entered into consecutively to deliberately restructure an otherwise single
transaction, with the intention of circumventing applicable thresholds set out in the
Notice.
A payment service provider should make further enquiries when a customer
performs frequent and cumulatively large transactions without any apparent of
visible economic or lawful purpose. For example, frequent deposits and
withdrawals from the same account over a short period of time, or multiple money
transfers over a short period of time such that the amount of each money transfer
is not substantial, but the total of which is substantial.
Notice Paragraphs 7.5 to 7.18
CDD Measures under Paragraphs 7.5 to 7.18
When relying on documents, a payment service provider should be aware that the
best documents to use to verify the identity of the customer are those most difficult
to obtain illicitly or to counterfeit. These may include government-issued identity
cards or passports, reports from independent company registries, published or
audited annual reports and other reliable sources of information. The rigour of the
verification process should be commensurate with the customer’s risk profile.
A payment service provider should exercise greater caution when dealing with an
unfamiliar or a new customer. Apart from obtaining the identification information
required by paragraph 7.6 of the Notice, a payment service provider should (if not
already obtained as part of its account opening process) also obtain additional
14

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-4-1
7-4-2
7-5-1
7-5-2
7-5-3
information on the customer’s background such as occupation, employer’s name,
nature of business, range of annual income, and whether the customer holds or
has held a prominent public function. Such additional identification information
enables a payment service provider to obtain better knowledge of its customer’s
risk profile, as well as the purpose and intended nature of the business relation or
transaction.
Notice Paragraph 7.6
Identification of Customer
With respect to paragraph 7.6(c) of the Notice, a P.O. box address should only be
used for jurisdictions where the residential address (e.g. street name or house
number) is not applicable or available in the local context.
A payment service provider should obtain a customer’s contact details such as
personal, office or work telephone numbers.
Notice Paragraph 7.8
Identification of Customer that is a Legal Person or Legal Arrangement
Under paragraph 7 and paragraph 9 of the Notice, a payment service provider is
required to identify and screen all the connected parties of a customer. However,
a payment service provider may verify their identities using a risk-based approach?.
A payment service provider is reminded of its obligations under the Notice to
identify connected parties and remain apprised of any changes to connected
parties.
Identification of connected parties may be done using publicly available sources or
databases such as company registries, annual reports or based on substantiated
information provided by the customers.
In relation to legal arrangements, a payment service provider shall perform CDD
measures on the customer by identifying the settlors, trustees, the protector (if
any), the beneficiaries (including every beneficiary that falls within a designated
characteristics or class) and any natural person exercising ultimate ownership,
ultimate control or ultimate effective control over the trust (including through a chain
of control or ownership), as required by paragraph 7.14 of the Notice.
3 For guidance on SCDD measures in relation to the identification and verification of the identities of connected parties of
a customer, payment service providers are to refer to paragraph 8-3 of these Guidelines.
15

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-6-1
7-6-2
7-6-3
7-6-4
Notice Paragraph 7.9
Verification of Identity of Customer
Where the customer is a natural person, a payment service provider should obtain
identification documents that contain a clear photograph of that customer.
In verifying the identity of a customer, a payment service provider may obtain the
following documents:
(a) Natural Persons —
(i) name, unique identification number, date of birth and nationality based on
a valid passport or a national identity card that bears a photograph of the
customer; and
(ii) residential address based on national identity card, recent utility or phone
bill, bank statement or correspondence from a government agency.
(b) Legal Persons or Legal Arrangements —
(i) name, legal form, proof of existence and constitution based on certificate
of incorporation, certificate of good standing, partnership agreement, trust
deed, constitutional document, certificate of registration or any other
documentation from a reliable independent source; and
(ii) powers that regulate and bind the legal person or arrangement based on
memorandum and articles of association, and board resolution authorising
the opening of an account and appointment of authorised signatories.
Further guidance on verification of different types of customers (including legal
persons or legal arrangements) is set out in Appendix A.
In exceptional circumstances where the payment service provider is unable to
retain a copy of documentation used to verify the customer’s identity, the payment
service provider should record the following:
(a) information that the original documentation had served to verify;
(b) title and description of the original documentation produced to the payment
service provider's employee or officer for verification, including any particular
or unique features or condition of that documentation (e.g. whether it is worn
out or damaged);
(c) reasons why a copy of that documentation could not be made; and
16

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-6-5
1-6-6
1-6-7
7-6-8
(d) name of the payment service provider’s employee or officer who carried out
the verification, a statement by that employee or officer certifying verification
of the information against the documentation and the date of the verification.
Reliability of Information and Documentation
Where a payment service provider obtains data, documents or information from
the customer or a third party, it should ensure that such data, documents or
information are current at the time they are provided to the payment service
provider.
Where the customer is unable to produce an original document, a payment service
provider may consider accepting a copy of the document —
(a) that is certified to be a true copy by a suitably qualified person (e.g. a notary
public, a lawyer or certified public or professional accountant); or
(b) ifa payment service provider’s employee or officer independent of the payment
service provider’s dealing with the customer has confirmed that he has sighted
the original document.
Where a document is in a foreign language, appropriate steps should be taken by
a payment service provider to be reasonably satisfied that the document does in
fact provide evidence of the customer’s identity. The payment service provider
should ensure that any document that is critical for performance of any measures
required under the Notice is translated into English by a suitably qualified
translator. Alternatively, the payment service provider may rely on a translation of
such document by a payment service provider’s employee or officer, independent
of the payment service provider’s dealing with the customer, who is conversant in
that foreign language. This is to allow all employees and officers of the payment
service provider involved in the performance of any measures required under the
Notice to understand the contents of the documents, for effective determination
and evaluation of ML/TF risks associated with the customer.
The payment service provider should ensure that documents obtained for
performing any measures required under the Notice are clear and legible. This is
important for the establishment of a customer’s identity.
Notice Paragraphs 7.10 to 7.12
Identification and Verification of Identity of Natural Person Appointed to Act
on a Customer’s Behalf
17

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-7-1
7-7-2
7-8-1
7-8-2
7-8-3
7-8-4
7-8-5
7-8-6
Appropriate documentary evidence of a customer’s appointment of a natural
person to act on its behalf includes a board resolution or similar authorisation
documents.
Where there is a long list of natural persons appointed to act on behalf of the
customer (e.g. a list comprising more than 10 authorised signatories), the payment
service provider should verify at a minimum those natural persons who deal directly
with the payment service provider.
Notice Paragraphs 7.13 to 7.17
Identification and Verification of Identity of Beneficial Owner
A payment service provider should note that measures listed under paragraph
7.14(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) as well as paragraph 7.14(b)(i) and (ii) of the Notice are not
alternative measures but are cascading measures with each to be used where the
immediately preceding measure has been applied but has not resulted in the
identification of a beneficial owner.
In relation to paragraph 7.14(a)(i) and (b)(i) of the Notice, when identifying the
natural person who ultimately owns the legal person or legal arrangement, the
shareholdings within the ownership structure of the legal person or legal
arrangement should be considered. It may be based on a threshold (e.g. any
person owning more than 25% of the legal person or legal arrangement, taking into
account any aggregated ownership for companies with cross-shareholdings).
A natural person who does not meet the shareholding threshold referred to in
paragraph 7-8-2 above but who controls the customer (e.g. through exercising
significant influence), is a beneficial owner under the Notice.
A payment service provider may also consider obtaining an undertaking or
declaration from the customer on the identity of, and the information relating to, the
beneficial owner. Notwithstanding the obtaining of such an undertaking or
declaration, the payment service provider remains responsible for complying with
its obligations under the Notice to take reasonable measures to verify the identity
of the beneficial owner by, for example, researching publicly available information
on the beneficial owner or arranging a face-to-face meeting with the beneficial
owner, to corroborate the undertaking or declaration provided by the customer.
Where the customer is not a natural person and has a complex ownership or
control structure, a payment service provider should obtain enough information to
sufficiently understand if there are legitimate reasons for such ownership or control
structure.
A payment service provider should take particular care when dealing with
companies with bearer shares, since beneficial ownership is difficult to establish.
18

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-8-7
7-8-8
7-8-9
7-8-10
7-9-1
For such companies, a payment service provider should adopt procedures to
establish the identities of the beneficial owners of such shares and ensure that the
payment service provider is notified whenever there is a change of beneficial owner
of such shares. At a minimum, these procedures should require the payment
service provider to obtain an undertaking in writing from the beneficial owner of
such bearer shares stating that the payment service provider shall be immediately
notified if the shares are transferred to another natural person, legal person or legal
arrangement. Depending on its risk assessment of the customer, the payment
service provider may require that the bearer shares be held by a named custodian,
with an undertaking from the custodian that the payment service provider will be
notified of any changes to ownership of these shares or the named custodian.
For the purposes of paragraph 7.16 of the Notice, where the customer is a legal
person publicly listed on a stock exchange and subject to regulatory disclosure
requirements relating to adequate transparency in respect of its beneficial owners
(imposed through stock exchange rules, law or other enforceable means), it is not
necessary to identify and verify the identities of the beneficial owners of the
customer.
In determining if the foreign stock exchange imposes regulatory disclosure and
adequate transparency requirements, the payment service provider should put in
place an internal assessment process with clear criteria, taking into account,
amongst others, the country risk and the level of the country’s compliance with the
FATF standards.
Where the customer is a majority-owned subsidiary of a publicly listed legal person,
it is not necessary to identify and verify the identities of beneficial owners of the
customer. However, for such a customer, if there are other non-publicly listed legal
persons who own more than 25% of the customer or who otherwise control the
customer, the beneficial owners of such non-publicly listed legal persons should
be identified and verified.
Where a customer is one which falls within paragraph 7.16 of the Notice, this does
not in itself constitute an adequate analysis of low ML/TF risks for the purpose of
performing SCDD measures under paragraph 8 of the Notice.
Notice Paragraph 7.18
Information on the Purpose and__ Intended Nature of
Business Relations and Transaction Undertaken without an Account Being
Opened
The measures taken by a payment service provider to understand the purpose and
intended nature of business relations and transactions undertaken without an
account being opened should be commensurate with the complexity of the
customer’s business and risk profile. For higher risk customers, a payment service
19

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-10
7-10-1
7-10-2
7-10-3
provider should seek to understand upfront the expected account activity (e.g.
frequency of transactions likely to pass through, expected amount for each
transaction, names of persons to whom moneys are to be transferred) and
consider, as part of ongoing monitoring, whether the activity corresponds with the
stated purpose. This will enable a more effective ongoing monitoring of the
customer’s business relations and transactions without an account being opened.
Notice Paragraphs 7.19 to 7.25
Review of Transactions Undertaken without an Account Being Opened
The payment service provider should make further enquiries when customers
perform frequent and cumulatively large transactions without an account being
opened, without any apparent or visible economic or lawful purpose. For example,
any such transactions that are not consistent with the payment service provider's
knowledge of the customer, including frequent transfers of funds to the same
recipient, frequent money-changing transactions over a short period of time or
multiple transfers of funds such that the amount of each fund transfer is not
substantial, but the total of which is substantial.
Where there are indications that the risks may have increased over time, the
payment service provider should request additional information and conduct a
review of the customer’s risk profile in order to determine if additional measures
are necessary.
In determining what would constitute suspicious, complex, unusually large or
unusual pattern of transactions undertaken without an account being opened, a
payment service provider should consider, amongst others, international
typologies and information obtained from law enforcement and other authorities
that may point to jurisdiction-specific considerations. As part of the review of such
transactions, a payment service provider should pay attention to transaction
characteristics, such as —
(a) the nature of a transaction (e.g. abnormal size or frequency for that customer
or peer group);
(b) whether a series of transactions is conducted with the intent to avoid reporting
thresholds (e.g. by structuring an otherwise single transaction into a number
of cash transactions);
(c) the geographic destination or origin of a payment (e.g. to or from an individual
Originating from or located in a higher risk country); and
(d) the parties concerned (e.g. a request to make a payment to or from a person
on a sanctions list).
20

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-10-4
7-10-5
7-10-6
7-11
7-11-1
7-11-2
A payment service provider’s transaction monitoring processes or systems for
review of transactions undertaken without an account being opened may vary in
scope or sophistication (e.g. using manual spreadsheets to automated and
complex systems). The degree of automation or sophistication of processes and
systems depends on the size and complexity of the payment service provider's
operations. The payment service provider may adjust the extent and depth of
monitoring of a customer according to the customer's ML/TF risk profile. The
adequacy of monitoring and the factors leading the payment service provider to
adjust the level of monitoring should be reviewed regularly for effectiveness in
mitigating the payment service provider's ML/TF risks.
The transaction monitoring processes and systems used by the payment service
provider should provide its business units and compliance officers (including
employees and officers who are tasked with conducting investigations) with timely
information needed to identify, analyse and effectively monitor customers for
ML/TF.
The parameters and thresholds used by a payment service provider to identify
suspicious transactions undertaken without an account being opened should be
properly documented and independently validated to ensure that they are
appropriate to its operations and context. A payment service provider should
periodically review the appropriateness of the parameters and thresholds used in
the review process.
Notice Paragraphs 7.26 to 7.33
Ongoing Monitoring
Ongoing monitoring of business relations is a fundamental feature of an effective
AML/CFT risk management system. Ongoing monitoring should be conducted in
relation to all business relations, but the payment service provider may adjust the
extent and depth of monitoring of a customer according to the customer’s ML/TF
risk profile. The adequacy of monitoring systems and the factors leading the
payment service provider to adjust the level of monitoring should be reviewed
regularly for effectiveness in mitigating the payment service provider’s ML/TF risks.
A payment service provider should make further enquiries when a customer
performs frequent and cumulatively large transactions in the course of business
relations without any apparent or visible economic or lawful purpose. For example,
transactions in the course of business relations that are not consistent with the
payment service provider's knowledge of the customer, including frequent
transfers of funds to the same recipient, frequent transactions over a short period
of time or multiple transfers of funds such that the amount of each fund transfer is
not substantial, but the total of which is substantial.
21

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-11-3
7-11-4
7-11-5
7-11-6
7-11-7
Where there are indications that the risks associated with an existing business
relationship may have increased, the payment service provider should request
additional information and conduct a review of the customer’s risk profile in order
to determine if additional measures are necessary.
Akey part of ongoing monitoring includes maintaining relevant and up-to-date CDD
data, documents and information so that the payment service provider can identify
changes to the customer’s risk profile —
(a) for higher risk categories of customers, a payment service provider should
obtain updated CDD information (including updated copies of the customer’s
passport or identity documents if these have expired), as part of its periodic
CDD review, or upon the occurrence of a trigger event, whichever is earlier;
and
(b) for all other risk categories of customers, a payment service provider should
obtain updated CDD information upon the occurrence of a trigger event.
Examples of trigger events are when (i) a significant transaction takes place, (ii) a
material change occurs in the way the customer’s account is operated, (iii) the
payment service provider's policies, procedures or standards relating to the
documentation of CDD information change substantially, and (iv) the payment
service provider becomes aware that it lacks sufficient information about the
customer concerned.
The frequency of CDD review may vary depending on each customer’s risk profile.
Higher risk customers should be subject to more frequent periodic review (e.g. on
an annual basis) to ensure that CDD information such as nationality, passport
details, certificate of incumbency, ownership and control information that the
payment service provider has previously obtained remain relevant and up-to-date.
In determining what would constitute suspicious, complex, unusually large or
unusual pattern of transactions, a payment service provider should consider,
amongst others, international typologies and information obtained from law
enforcement and other authorities that may point to jurisdiction-specific
considerations. As part of ongoing monitoring, a payment service provider should
pay attention to transaction characteristics, such as —
(a) the nature of a transaction (e.g. abnormal size or frequency for that customer
or peer group);
(b) whether a series of transactions is conducted with the intent to avoid reporting
thresholds (e.g. by structuring an otherwise single transaction into a number
of cash transactions);
(c) the geographic destination or origin of a payment (e.g. to or from a higher risk
country); and
22

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-11-8
7-11-9
7-11-10
7-11-11
7-11-12
7-11-13
(d) the parties concerned (e.g. a request to make a payment to or from a person
on a sanctions list).
A payment service provider’s transaction monitoring processes or systems may
vary in scope or sophistication (e.g. using manual spreadsheets to automated and
complex systems). The degree of automation or sophistication of processes and
systems depends on the size and complexity of the payment service provider’s
operations.
Nevertheless, the processes and systems used by the payment service provider
should provide its business units and compliance officers (including employees
and officers who are tasked with conducting investigations) with timely information
needed to identify, analyse and effectively monitor customer accounts for ML/TF.
The transaction monitoring processes and systems should enable the payment
service provider to monitor the accounts of a customer holistically across business
units to identify any suspicious transactions. In the event that a business unit
discovers suspicious trends or transactions in a customer’s account, such
information should be shared across other business units to facilitate a holistic
assessment of the ML/TF risks presented by the customer. Therefore, payment
service providers should have processes in place to share such information across
business units. In addition, payment service providers should perform trend
analyses of transactions to identify unusual or suspicious transactions. Payment
service providers should also monitor transactions with parties in high risk
countries or jurisdictions.
In addition, payment service providers should have processes in place to monitor
related customer accounts holistically within and across business units, so as to
better understand the risks associated with such customer groups, identify
potential ML/TF risks and report suspicious transactions.
In the conduct of monitoring, a payment service provider could establish
parameters, thresholds or specific scenarios that would enable them to better
determine the activities that will be reviewed. The parameters, thresholds and
scenarios used by a payment service provider to identify suspicious transactions
should be properly documented and independently validated to ensure that they
are appropriate to its operations and context. Payment service providers should
utilise data analytics tools that are commensurate with their risks, as well as size
and sophistication of their business, to enhance the detection of suspicious
transactions. A payment service provider should also periodically review the
appropriateness of the parameters, thresholds and scenarios used in the
monitoring process.
A payment service provider should clearly document the criteria applied to decide
the frequency and intensity of the monitoring of different customer segments. A
payment service provider should also properly document and retain the results of
their monitoring as well as any assessment performed.
23

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-12
7-12-1
7-12-2
7-12-3
Notice Paragraphs 7.34 to 7.40
CDD Measures for Non-Face-to-Face Business Relations or Non-Face-to
Face Transactions Undertaken without an Account Being Opened
A reference to “specific risks” in paragraph 7.34 of the Notice includes risks arising
from establishing business relations and undertaking transactions in the course of
a business relations or undertaking transactions without an account being opened,
according to instructions conveyed by customers over the internet, post, fax or
phone. A payment service provider should note that applications and transactions
undertaken across the internet or phone may pose greater risks than other
nonface-to-face business due to the following factors:
(a) the ease of unauthorised access to the facility, across time zones and
location;
(b) the ease of making multiple fictitious applications without incurring extra
cost or the risk of detection;
(c) the absence of physical documents; and
(d) the speed of electronic transactions,
that may, taken together, aggravate the ML/TF risks.
The measures taken by a payment service provider for verification of an identity in
respect of non-face-to-face business relations with or transactions undertaken for
the customer will depend on the nature and characteristics of the product or service
provided and the customer’s risk profile.
Where verification of identity is performed without face-to-face contact (e.g.
electronically), a payment service provider should apply additional checks to
manage the risk of impersonation. The additional checks may consist of robust
anti-fraud checks that the payment service provider routinely undertakes as part of
its existing procedures, which may include —
(a) phone contact with the customer at a personal, residential or business number
that can be verified independently;
(b) confirmation of the customer's address through an exchange of
correspondence or other appropriate method;
(c) subject to the customer’s consent, phone confirmation of the customer’s
employment status with his employer’s human resource department at a listed
business number of the employer;
24

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-12-4
7-12-5
7-12-6
7-13
(d) confirmation of the customer’s salary details by requiring the presentation of
recent bank statements, where applicable;
(e) provision of certified identification documents by lawyers or notaries public;
(f) requirement for customer to make an initial deposit into the account with the
payment service provider from funds held by the customer in an account with
a bank in Singapore;
(g) real-time video conferencing that is comparable to _ face-to-face
communication;
(h) verification of a customer’s identity through a document that customer has
signed with a secure digital signature using a set of PKI based credentials
issued by a certified Certificate Authority under the Electronic Transactions Act
2010; or
(i) use of technology solutions to manage the impersonation risks including, but
not limited to, the use of biometric technologies (e.g. fingerprint or iris scans,
facial recognition etc.) which should be linked incontrovertibly to the customer.
A payment service provider should regularly review the effectiveness of its checks
to manage the risk of impersonation following the conduct of its non-face-to-face
business contact.
A payment service provider may wish to conduct the independent assessment in
paragraph 7.37 of the Notice as part of its annual audit. In appointing the external
auditor or independent consultant for the independent assessment, the payment
service provider should consider the competency of the external auditor or
independent consultant, including their track record, and knowledge of technology
solutions and regulatory requirements.
In considering whether there has been a substantial change in the policies and
procedures in paragraph 7.39 of the Notice, a payment service provider should
take into account the likely impact of the new policy or procedure on the specific
risks associated with non-face-to-face business relations with a new customer or
non-face-to-face transactions undertaken without an account being opened for a
customer, for example, the adoption of a technology solution different from that
used in the existing policies and procedures.
Notice Paragraph 7.41
Reliance by Acquiring Payment Service Provider on Measures Already
Performed
25

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-13-1
1-13-2
7-13-3
7-14
7-14-1
7-14-2
When a payment service provider acquires the business of another FI, either in
whole or in part, it is not necessary for the identity of all existing customers to be
verified again, provided that the requirements of paragraph 7.41 of the Notice are
met. A payment service provider shall maintain proper records of its due diligence
review performed on the acquired business.
Notwithstanding the reliance on identification and verification that has already been
performed, an acquiring payment service provider is responsible for its obligations
under the Notice.
When a payment service provider acquires the business of another Fl, either in
whole or in part, the payment service provider is reminded that in addition to
complying with paragraph 7.41 of the Notice, it is also required to comply with the
requirements set out in paragraphs 7.19 to 7.33 of the Notice.
Notice Paragraph 7.43 to 7.45
Timing for Verification
With reference to paragraph 7.44 of the Notice, an example of when the deferral
of completion of the verification is essential in order not to interrupt the normal
conduct of business operations is securities trades, where timely execution of
trades is critical given changing market conditions. One way a payment service
provider could effectively manage the ML/TF risks arising from the deferral of
completion of verification is to put in place appropriate limits on the financial
services available to the customer (e.g. limits on the number, type and value of
transactions that can be effected) and institute closer monitoring procedures, until
the verification has been completed.
With reference to paragraph 7.45 of the Notice —
(a) the completion of verification should not exceed 30 business days after the
establishment of business relations;
(b) the payment service provider should suspend business relations with the
customer and refrain from carrying out further transactions (except to return
funds to their sources, to the extent that this is possible) if such verification
remains uncompleted 30 business days after the establishment of business
relations;
(c) the payment service provider should terminate business relations with the
customer if such verification remains uncompleted 120 business days after the
establishment of business relations; and
(d) the payment service provider should factor these time limitations in its policies,
procedures and controls.
26

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-14-3 For avoidance of doubt, delayed verification should not be applied for transactions
7-15
7-15-1
7-15-2
7-16
7-16-1
7-16-2
undertaken without an account being opened.
Notice Paragraph 7.50
Existing Customers
In relation to customer accounts which pre-date the coming into force of the current
Notice, the payment service provider should prioritise the remediation of higher risk
customers.
In taking into account any previous measures as referred to in paragraph 7.50 of
the Notice, a payment service provider should consider whether —
(a) there has been any significant transaction undertaken, since the measures
were last performed, having regard to the manner in which the account is
ordinarily operated;
(b) there is a material change, since the measures were last performed, in the way
that business relations with the customer is conducted;
(c) it lacks adequate identification information on a customer; and
(d) there is a change in the ownership or control of the customer, or the persons
authorised to act on behalf of the customer in its business relations with the
payment service provider.
Notice Paragraphs 7.51 to 7.54
Screening
Screening is intended to be a preventive measure. A payment service provider is
reminded that all parties identified pursuant to the Notice are required to be
screened, irrespective of the risk profile of the customer.
Where screening results in a positive hit against sanctions lists, a payment service
provider is reminded of its obligations to freeze without delay and without prior
notice, the funds or other assets of designated persons and entities that it has
control over, so as to comply with applicable laws and regulations in Singapore,
including the TSOFA, and the regulations issued under section 192 read with
section 15(1)(b) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2022 (“FSM Act”)
27

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
relating to sanctions and freezing of assets of persons‘ (“FSM Sanctions
Regulations”). Any such assets should be reported promptly to the relevant
authorities and a Suspicious Transaction Report (“STR”) should be filed.
7-16-3 A payment service provider should put in place policies, procedures and controls
1-16-4
that clearly set out —
(a) the ML/TF information sources used by the payment service provider for
screening (including commercial databases used to identify adverse
information on individuals and entities, individuals and entities covered under
the FSM Sanctions Regulations, individuals and entities identified by other
sources such as the payment service provider's head office or parent
supervisory authority, lists and information provided by the Authority and
relevant authorities in Singapore);
(b) the roles and responsibilities of the payment service provider’s employees and
officers involved in the screening, reviewing and dismissing of alerts,
maintaining and updating of the various screening databases and escalating
hits;
(c) the frequency of review of such policies, procedures and controls;
(d) the frequency of periodic screening;
(e) how apparent matches from screening are to be resolved by the payment
service provider's employees and officers, including the process for
determining that an apparent match is a positive hit and for dismissing an
apparent match as a false hit; and
(f) the steps to be taken by the payment service provider’s employees and officers
for reporting positive hits to the payment service provider’s senior
management and to the relevant authorities.
The level of automation used in the screening process should take into account
the nature, size and risk profile of a payment service provider’s business. A
payment service provider should be aware of any shortcomings in its automated
screening systems. In particular, it is important to consider “fuzzy matching” to
identify non-exact matches. The payment service provider should ensure that the
fuzzy matching process is calibrated to the risk profile of its business. As
application of the fuzzy matching process is likely to result in the generation of an
increased number of apparent matches which have to be checked, the payment
service provider’s employees and officers will need to have access to CDD
information to enable them to exercise their judgment in identifying true hits.
4 Including the regulations issued under section 192 read with sections 15(1)(b) and 219(d) of the FSM Act. Please refer to
the following link for the relevant Financial Services and Markets Regulations: https://mas.gov.sg/regulation/anti-money-
laundering/targeted-financial-sanctions/requlations-for-targeted-financial-sanctions
28

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
7-16-5
7-16-6
7-16-7
7-16-8
7-16-9
7-16-10
A payment service provider should be aware that performing screening after
business relations have been established or transactions without an account being
opened have been undertaken could lead to a breach of relevant laws and
regulations in Singapore relating to sanctioned parties. When the payment service
provider becomes aware of such breaches, it should immediately take the
necessary actions and inform the relevant authorities.
In screening periodically as required by paragraph 7.52(e) of the Notice, a payment
service provider should pay particular attention to changes in customer status (e.g.
whether the customer has over time become subject to prohibitions and sanctions)
or customer risks (e.g. a connected party of a customer, a beneficial owner of the
customer or a natural person appointed to act on behalf of the customer
subsequently becomes a Politically Exposed Person or presents higher ML/TF
risks, or a customer subsequently becomes a Politically Exposed Person or
presents higher ML/TF risks) and assess whether to subject the customer to the
appropriate ML/TF risk mitigation measures (e.g. enhanced CDD measures).
A payment service provider should ensure that the identification information of a
customer, a connected party of the customer, a natural person appointed to act on
behalf of the customer and a beneficial owner of the customer is entered into the
payment service provider's customer database for periodic name screening
purposes. This will help the payment service provider to promptly identify any
existing customers who have subsequently become higher risk parties.
In determining the frequency of periodic name screening, a payment service
provider should consider its customer’s risk profile.
The payment service provider should ensure that it has adequate arrangements to
perform screening of the payment service provider’s customer database when
there are changes to the lists of sanctioned individuals and entities, covered by the
TSOFA, and the FSM Sanctions Regulations. The payment service provider should
implement “four-eye checks” on alerts from sanctions review before closing an
alert, or conduct quality assurance checks on closure of such alerts on a sample
basis.
With reference to paragraph 7.53 of the Notice, transaction screening should take
place on a real-time basis (i.e. the screening or filtering of relevant payment
instructions should be carried out before the transaction is executed).
29

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
8-1
8-2
8-3
8-5
Notice Paragraph 8 — Simplified Customer Due Diligence
Paragraph 8.1 of the Notice permits a payment service provider to adopt a risk
based approach in assessing the necessary measures to be performed, and to
perform appropriate SCDD measures, in cases where —
(a) the customer is one whom the payment service provider only effects or receives
cross-border wire transfers that are solely for the payment of goods and
services and funded from an identifiable source; or
(b) the payment service provider is satisfied, upon analysis, that the ML/TF risks
are low.
Where a payment service provider applies SCDD measures, it is still required to
perform ongoing monitoring of business relations and reviews of transactions
undertaken without an account being opened, under the Notice. In addition, to
ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations in Singapore, including
the FSM Sanctions Regulations relating to sanctioned parties, a payment service
provider is reminded that where it applies SCDD measures, it is still required to
screen all parties under the Notice.
Under SCDD, a payment service provider may adopt a risk-based approach in
assessing whether any measures should be performed for connected parties of
the customers.
Subject to paragraph 8.4 of the Notice, where a payment service provider is
satisfied that the risks of money laundering and terrorism financing are low, a
payment service provider may perform SCDD measures. Examples of possible
SCDD measures include —
(a) reducing the frequency of updates of customer identification information;
(b) reducing the degree of ongoing monitoring and scrutiny of transactions, based
on a reasonable monetary threshold; or
(c) choosing another method to understand the purpose and intended nature of
business relations or a transaction undertaken without an account being
opened by inferring this from the type of transactions, instead of collecting
information as to the purpose and intended nature of such business relations
or transaction.
Subject to the requirement that a payment service provider’s assessment of low
ML/TF risks is supported by an adequate analysis of risks, examples of potentially
lower ML/TE risk situations include —
30

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
(a) Customer risk
(i)
(il)
a Singapore Government entity;
entities listed on a stock exchange and subject to regulatory disclosure
requirements relating to adequate transparency in respect of beneficial
owners (imposed through stock exchange rules, law or other enforceable
means); and
(iii) an Fl incorporated or established outside Singapore that is subject to and
supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements consistent with
standards set by the FATF.
(b) Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk
(i)
(il)
a pension, superannuation or similar scheme that provides retirement
benefits to employees, where contributions are made by way of deduction
from wages, and the scheme rules do not permit the assignment of a
member’s interest under the scheme; and
financial products or services that provide appropriately defined and
limited services to certain types of customers (e.g. to increase customer
access for financial inclusion purposes).
31

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9
9-1
9-2
Notice Paragraph9 — Enhanced Customer Due Diligence
Where the ML/TF risks are identified to be higher, a payment service provider shall
take enhanced CDD (“ECDD”) measures to mitigate and manage those risks.
Examples of potentially higher risk categories under paragraph 9.7 of the Notice
include —
(a)
(b)
(c)
Customer risk
(i) customers from higher risk businesses/ activities/ sectors identified in
Singapore’s NRA, guidance from the Authority, as well as other higher risk
businesses/ activities/ sectors identified by the payment service provider;
(ii) the ownership structure of the legal person or arrangement appears
unusual or excessively complex given the nature of the legal person’s or
legal arrangement’s business;
(iii) legal persons or legal arrangements that are personal asset holding
vehicles;
(iv) the business relations with a customer or transaction undertaken without
an account being opened is conducted under unusual circumstances (e.g.
significant unexplained geographic distance between the payment service
provider and the customer);
(v) companies that have nominee shareholders or shares in bearer form; and
(vi) cash-intensive businesses.
Country or geographic risk
(i) countries orjurisdictions the payment service provider is exposed to, either
through its own activities (including where its branches, subsidiaries and
agents operate in) or the activities of its customers (including the payment
service provider’s network of correspondent account relationships) which
have relatively higher levels of corruption, organised crime or inadequate
AML/CFT measures, as identified by the FATF; and
(ii) countries identified by credible bodies (e.g. reputable international bodies
such as Transparency International) as having significant levels of
corruption, terrorism financing or other criminal activity.
Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk
(i) anonymous transactions (which may involve cash); and
32

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-3
9-4-1
9-4-2
9-4-3
9-4-4
9-4-5
(ii) frequent payments received from unknown or unassociated third parties.
When considering the ML/TF risks presented by a country or jurisdiction, a
payment service provider should take into account, where appropriate, variations
in ML/TF risks across different regions or areas within a country.
Notice Paragraph 9.1
Politically Exposed Persons (“PEPs”) Definitions
The definitions in paragraph 9.1 of the Notice are drawn from the FATF
Recommendations. The definition of PEPs is not intended to cover middle-ranking
or more junior individuals in the categories listed.
In the context of Singapore, domestic PEPs should include at least all Government
Ministers, Members of Parliament, Nominated Members of Parliament and Non-
Constituency Members of Parliament.
When determining whether a person is a “close associate” of a PEP, the payment
service provider may consider factors such as the level of influence the PEP has
on such a person or the extent of his exposure to the PEP. The payment service
provider may rely on information available from public sources and information
obtained through customer interaction.
With reference to paragraph 9.1 of the Notice, examples of an “international
organisation” include the United Nations and affiliated agencies such as the
International Maritime Organisation and the International Monetary Fund; regional
international organisations such as the Asian Development Bank, Association of
Southeast Asian Nations Secretariat, institutions of the European Union, the
Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; military international
organisations such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation; and economic
organisations such as the World Trade Organisation or the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Secretariat.
Examples of persons who are or have been entrusted with prominent functions by
an international organisation are members of senior management such as
directors, deputy directors and members of the board or equivalent functions.
Other than relying on information from a customer, the payment service provider
may consider information from public sources in determining whether a person has
been or is entrusted with prominent functions by an international organisation.
33

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-5-1
9-5-2
9-5-3
9-5-4
9-5-5
Notice Paragraphs 9.2 to 9.4
PEPs
If a payment service provider determines that any natural person appointed to act
on behalf of a customer or any connected party of a customer is a PEP, the
payment service provider should assess the ML/TF risks presented and consider
factors such as the level of influence that the PEP has on the customer. Payment
service providers should consider factors such as whether the PEP is able to
exercise substantial influence over the customer, to determine the overall ML/TF
risks presented by the customer. Where the customer presents higher ML/TF risks,
the payment service provider should apply ECDD measures on the customer
accordingly.
It is generally acceptable for a payment service provider to refer to commercially
available databases to identify PEPs. However, a payment service provider should
also obtain from the customer details of his occupation and the name of his
employer. In addition, a payment service provider should consider other non-public
information that the payment service provider is aware of. A payment service
provider shall exercise sound judgment in identifying any PEP, having regard to
the risks and the circumstances.
In relation to paragraph 9.3(a) of the Notice, the approval shall be obtained from
senior management. Inputs should also be obtained from the payment service
provider's AML/CFT compliance function.
In relation to paragraph 9.3(b) of the Notice, a payment service provider may refer
to information sources such as asset and income declarations, which some
jurisdictions expect certain senior public officials to file and which often include
information about an official’s source of wealth and current business interests. A
payment service provider should note that not all declarations are publicly
available. A payment service provider should also be aware that certain
jurisdictions impose restrictions on their PEPs’ ability to hold foreign bank
accounts, to hold other office or paid employment.
Source of wealth generally refers to the origin of the customer’s and beneficial
owner's entire body of wealth (i.e. total assets). This relates to how the customer
and beneficial owner have acquired the wealth which is distinct from identifying the
assets that they own. Source of wealth information should give an indication about
the size of wealth the customer and beneficial owner would be expected to have,
and how the customer and beneficial owner acquired the wealth. Although the
payment service provider may not have specific information about assets that are
not processed by the payment service provider, it may be possible to obtain
general information from the customer, commercial databases or other open
sources. Examples of appropriate and reasonable means of establishing source of
wealth are information and documents such as evidence of title, copies of trust
deeds, audited accounts, salary details, tax returns and bank statements.
34

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-5-6
9-5-7
9-5-8
9-5-9
Source of funds refers to the origin of the particular funds or other assets which
are the subject of the establishment of business relations or the undertaking of
transactions without an account being opened (e.g. the amounts being deposited
or transferred as part of the business relations or transaction). In order to ensure
that the funds are not proceeds of crime, the payment service provider should not
limit its source of funds inquiry to identifying the other Fl from which the funds have
been transferred, but more importantly, the activity that generated the funds. The
information obtained should be substantive and facilitate the establishment of the
provenance of the funds or reason for the funds having been acquired. Examples
of appropriate and reasonable means of establishing source of funds are
information such as salary payments or sale proceeds.
Based on its risk assessment of the PEP, a payment service provider should
consider whether the information regarding source of wealth and source of funds
should be corroborated. In relation to paragraph 9.3(b) of the Notice, examples of
“appropriate and reasonable means’ for establishing source of wealth or source of
funds are financial statements of the legal person or legal arrangement owned or
controlled by the PEP, site visits, a copy of the will (in cases where the source of
wealth or funds is an inheritance), and conveyancing documents (in cases where
the source of wealth or funds is a sale of property).
In relation to paragraph 9.3 of the Notice, other ECDD measures that may be
performed include —
(a) requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the
customer’s name with another FI subject to similar or equivalent CDD
standards;
(b) using public sources of information (e.g. websites) to gain a_ better
understanding of the reputation of the customer or any beneficial owner of a
customer. Where the payment service provider finds information containing
allegations of wrongdoing by a customer or a beneficial owner of a customer,
the payment service provider should assess how this affects the level of risk
associated with the business relations or transaction undertaken without an
account being opened;
(c) commissioning external intelligence reports where it is not possible for a
payment service provider to easily obtain information through public sources
or where there are doubts about the reliability of public information.
In relation to paragraph 9.5(a) and (b) of the Notice, where the payment service
provider assesses that the business relations with, or the transaction undertaken
without an account being opened for, a domestic PEP or an_ international
organisation PEP do not present higher ML/TF risks and that therefore ECDD
measures need not be applied, the payment service provider shall nevertheless
apply measures under paragraph 7 of the Notice on the customer. However, where
changes in events, circumstances or other factors lead to the payment service
35

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-5-10
9-5-11
9-6-1
9-6-2
9-6-3
provider’s assessment that the business relations with, or the transactions for, the
customer present higher ML/TF risks, the payment service provider should review
its risk assessment and apply ECDD measures.
While domestic PEPs and international organisation PEPs may be subject to a
risk-based approach, it does not preclude such persons from presenting the same
ML/TF risks as a foreign PEP.
With reference to paragraph 9.5(c) of the Notice, while the time elapsed since
stepping down from a prominent public function is a relevant factor to consider
when determining the level of influence a PEP continues to exercise, it should not
be the sole determining factor. Other risk factors that the payment service provider
should consider are —
(a) the seniority of the position that the individual previously held when he was a
PEP; and
(b) whether the individual’s previous PEP position and current function are linked
in any way (e.g. whether the ex-PEP was appointed to his current position or
function by his successor, or whether the ex-PEP continues to substantively
exercise the same powers in his current position or function).
Notice Paragraphs 9.6 to 9.9
Other Higher Risk Categories
In relation to paragraph 9.8 of the Notice, a payment service provider may refer to
preceding paragraph section 9-5-8 of these Guidelines for further guidance on the
ECDD measures to be performed.
For customers highlighted in paragraph 9.7(a) of the Notice, a payment service
provider shall assess them as presenting higher ML/TF risks. For such customers,
the payment service provider shall ensure that the ECDD measures performed are
commensurate with the risks. For customers highlighted in paragraph 9.7(b) of the
Notice, a payment service provider shall assess whether any such customer
presents a higher risk for ML/TF and ensure that the measures under paragraph 7
of the Notice, or ECDD measures where the payment service provider assesses
the customer to present a higher risk for ML/TF, performed are commensurate with
the risk.
With reference to paragraph 9.7(a) of the Notice, a payment service provider
should refer to the FATF Public Statement on High Risk Jurisdictions subject to a
36

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-6-4
9-6-5
Call for Action®. FATF updates this Public Statement on a periodic basis and
payment service providers should regularly refer to the FATF website for the latest
updates’®.
For the purposes of paragraph 9.9 of the Notice, regulations issued by the Authority
include the Regulations relating to the freezing of assets of persons and
sanctioning of persons.
With regard to tax and other serious crimes, as a preventive measure, payment
service providers are expected to reject a prospective customer where there are
reasonable grounds to suspect that the customer’s assets are the proceeds of
serious crimes, including wilful and fraudulent tax evasion. Where there are
grounds for suspicion in an existing business relations or when undertaking a
transaction without opening an account, payment service providers should conduct
enhanced monitoring and where appropriate, discontinue the relations or not
undertake the transaction respectively. If the payment service provider is inclined
to retain the customer, approval shall be obtained from senior management with
the substantiating reasons properly documented, and the account or transaction
subjected to close monitoring and commensurate risk mitigation measures, as
applicable. This requirement applies to serious foreign tax offences, even if the
foreign offence is in relation to the type of tax for which an equivalent obligation
does not exist in Singapore. Examples of tax crime related suspicious transactions
are set out in Appendix B of these Guidelines.
° Please refer to the high-risk jurisdictions subject to a FATF call on its members and other jurisdictions to apply
countermeasures (i.e. “black list’ jurisdictions) in the FATF webpage - https:/Avww.fatf-gafi.org/en/publications/High-risk-
and-other-monitored-jurisdictions.html
6 The link to the FATF website is as follows: http://www. fatf-gafi.org/
37

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
12
12-1
12-2
12-3
12-4
12-5
12-6
Notice Paragraph 12 — Reliance on Third Parties
Paragraph 12 does not apply to outsourcing. Third party reliance under paragraph
12 of the Notice is different from an outsourcing arrangement or agreement.
In a third party reliance scenario, the third party will typically have an existing
relationship with the customer that is independent of the relationship to be formed
by the customer with the relying payment service provider. The third party will
therefore perform the CDD measures on the customer according to its own
AML/CFT policies, procedures and controls.
In contrast to a third party reliance scenario, the outsourced service provider
performs the CDD measures (e.g. performs centralised transaction monitoring
functions) on behalf of the payment service provider, in accordance with the
payment service provider’s AML/CFT policies, procedures and standards, and is
subject to the payment service provider's control measures to effectively
implement the payment service provider’s AML/CFT procedures.
For avoidance of doubt, holders of a payment services licence or any foreign
payment service providers (or its equivalent) are not considered as eligible third
parties on which the payment service provider would be able to rely.
The payment service provider may take a variety of measures, where applicable,
to satisfy the requirements in paragraph 12.2(a) and 12.2(b) of the Notice, including
(a) referring to any independent and public assessment of the overall AML/CFT
regime to which the third party is subject, such as the FATF or FSRB’s Mutual
Evaluation reports and the IMF/World Bank Financial Sector Assessment
Programme Reports/Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes;
(b) referring to any publicly available reports or material on the quality of that third
party’s compliance with applicable AML/CFT rules;
(c) obtaining professional advice as to the extent of AML/CFT obligations to which
the third party is subject to with respect to the laws of the jurisdiction in which
the third party operates;
(d) examining the AML/CFT laws in the jurisdiction where the third party operates
and determining its comparability with the AML/CFT laws of Singapore;
(e) reviewing the policies and procedures of the third party.
The reference to “documents” in paragraph 12.2(d) of the Notice includes a
reference to the underlying CDD-related documents and records obtained by the
third party to support the CDD measures performed (e.g. copies of identification
information, CDD/Know Your Customer forms). Where these documents and
38

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
12-7
12-8
records are kept by the third party, the payment service provider should obtain an
undertaking from the third party to keep all underlying CDD-related documents and
records for at least five years following the termination of the payment service
provider’s business relations with the customer or the completion of transactions
undertaken without an account being opened.
Paragraph 12.3 of the Notice prohibits the payment service provider from relying
on the third party to carry out ongoing monitoring or review of transactions without
an account being opened. Paragraph 12.3 of the Notice should be read with the
requirements in Parts (VI) and (VII) of paragraph 7 of the Notice.
For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 12 of the Notice does not apply to the
outsourcing of the ongoing monitoring process by a payment service provider to
its parent entity, branches and subsidiaries. A payment service provider may
outsource the first-level review of alerts from the transaction monitoring systems,
or sanctions reviews, to another party. However, the payment service provider
remains responsible for complying with ongoing monitoring requirements under the
Notice.
39

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
13
13-1
13-2
13-3
13-4
13-5
13-6
Notice Paragraph 13 — Correspondent Accounts
Payment service providers should note that the requirements under paragraph 13
of the Notice are in addition to performing measures set out under paragraphs 7,
8, 9 of the Notice, as applicable.
A payment service provider could act as a correspondent for many payment
service providers or Fls around the world. Respondent Fls may be provided with a
wide range of services, including cash management (e.g. accounts in a variety of
currencies), payable-through accounts and exchange services.
Payment service providers should note that foreign exchange and money market
transactions do not fall within the scope of “similar services” as referred to in
paragraph 13.1 of the Notice.
After a payment service provider obtains adequate information as required by
paragraphs 13.3(a) and 13.5(a) of the Notice to establish a correspondent account
relationship or the provision of similar services, such information should continue
to be updated on a periodic basis thereafter.
The payment service provider should update the assessment of the suitability of
the respondent FI or correspondent Fl as required by paragraphs 13.3(a) and
13.5(a) of the Notice respectively, on a periodic basis. If there are material changes
to the assessment, the payment service provider should obtain approval from its
senior management to continue the provision of correspondent account services
to the respondent FI or the use of correspondent account services from the
correspondent FI.
Other factors that a payment service provider should consider in complying with
paragraphs 13.3(a) and 13.5(a) of the Notice include —
(a) the business group to which the respondent FI or correspondent FI belongs,
country of incorporation, and the countries or jurisdictions in which subsidiaries
and branches of the group are located;
(b) information about the respondent FI’s or correspondent Fl’s management and
ownership, reputation, major business activities, target markets, customer
base and their locations;
(c) the purpose of the services provided to the respondent FI and expected
business volume; and
40

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
13-7
13-8
13-9
13-10
13-11
13-12
(d) the potential use of the account by other respondent Fls in a “nested”
correspondent account relationship’; the payment service provider should
review the risks posed by such “nested” relationships.
To assess the ML/TF risks associated with a particular country orjurisdiction as
required by paragraphs 13.3(a)(iii) and 13.5(a)(iii) of the Notice, a correspondent
payment service provider may rely on information from the FATF mutual
evaluation reports and statements on countries or jurisdictions identified as either
being subject to countermeasures or having strategic AML/CFT deficiencies,
mutual evaluation reports by FSRBs, publicly available information from national
authorities and any restrictive measures imposed on a country or jurisdiction,
particularly prohibitions on providing remittance services.
Where a payment service provider provides correspondent account services to,
or receives correspondent account services from, Fls that are its related entities,
the appropriate level of measures as required under paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of the
Notice (as applicable), and paragraph 13 of the Notice should be applied, bearing
in mind that the risk profiles of individual entities within the same group could
differ significantly. The payment service provider should take into consideration
the parent company’s level of oversight and control over these related entities,
and other risk factors unique to the entities such as their customers and products,
the legal and regulatory environment they operate in, and sanctions by authorities
for AML/CFT lapses.
The CDD process should result in a thorough understanding of the ML/TF risks
arising from a relationship with the respondent FI or correspondent FI. It should
not be treated as a “form-filling’” exercise. A payment service provider's
assessment of the respondent Fl or correspondent Fl may be enhanced through
meetings with the respondent Fl’s or correspondent FIl’s management,
compliance head and AML/CFT regulators.
A payment service provider may apply a risk-based approach in complying with
the requirements set out in paragraph 13 of the Notice but should be mindful that
correspondent account relationships generally presents higher ML/TF risks.
If a payment service provider provides correspondent account or other similar
services to its related respondent Fls, or receives correspondent account or other
similar services from its related correspondent Fls, within the same financial
group, the payment service provider should ensure that it still assesses the ML/TF
risks presented by its related respondent FI or related correspondent FI.
Where the head office of the financial group is incorporated in Singapore, it should
monitor the correspondent account relationships between payment service
” Nested correspondent accounts refers to the use of a payment service provider's correspondent relationship by a number
of respondent Fls, through their relationships with the payment service provider’s direct respondent FI, to conduct
transactions and obtain access to other financial services.
41

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
13-13
13-14
13-15
providers in its financial group, and ensure that adequate information sharing
mechanisms within the financial group are in place.
For the purposes of paragraph 13 of the Notice, a payment service provider
should take into account, for example, any sanctions imposed by relevant
authorities on a respondent FI or correspondent FI for failing to have adequate
controls against criminal activities.
In assessing whether a FI falls within the meaning of “shell Fl” for the purposes
of paragraph 13 of the Notice, a payment service provider should note that
physical presence means meaningful mind and management located within a
country. The existence simply of a local agent or low-level employees does not
constitute physical presence.
In a country or jurisdiction where provision of cross border money transfer
services is a regulated activity, a payment service provider should engage Fls
which are regulated, to facilitate the cross border transfer of moneys to recipients
in that country or jurisdiction, instead of entering into agreements or
arrangements with other unregulated entities to do the same.
42

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
14
14-1
14-2
14-3
14-4
14-5
Notice Paragraph 14 — Agency Arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding the appointment of an agent, the
payment service provider shall remain responsible for its AML/CFT obligations in
the Notice.
Paragraph 14.2(a) of the Notice requires that any agency arrangement be
documented in writing because such written documentation is important to set
out the respective roles and responsibilities of the payment service provider and
the agent.
A payment service provider should develop stringent agent selection criteria to
ensure that an agent is fit and proper and has the necessary resources to comply
with the payment service provider’s AML/CFT programme as required under
paragraph 14.2(d) of the Notice. In monitoring agents’ compliance with its
AML/CFT programme as required under paragraph 14.2(d) of the Notice, a
payment service provider should put in place and implement robust policies,
procedures and controls. Such policies, procedures and controls should be
approved by the payment service provider’s senior management and reviewed
periodically to ensure that they are kept up-to-date and relevant.
A payment service provider should conduct a periodic review of its agents to
evaluate their compliance level with its policies and procedures. Where the
payment service provider observes any non-compliance with its AML/CFT
programme, it should document its findings and consider whether to take any
remedial action, such as the termination of the agency agreement. The payment
service provider should obtain approval from its senior management on the
proposed action to be taken, including any proposal not to take any action.
In complying with paragraph 14.4 of the Notice, the payment service provider
should obtain and retain with the current list of its agents, information such as the
agents’ full names (including any aliases), unique identification numbers (such as
an identity card number, birth certificate number or passport number, or where
the agent is not a natural person, the incorporation number or business
registration number), residential addresses or registered or business addresses,
and if different, principal place of businesses (as may be appropriate), dates of
birth, establishment, incorporation or registration (as may be appropriate) and
nationality or place of incorporation or registration (as may be appropriate). The
payment service provider should obtain all necessary documentation that
identifies and verifies the agent appointed, including its shareholding structure,
the board of director, the management team, beneficial owner(s), where
appropriate. The payment service provider should also record and retain
information such as the date of commencement, date of termination and reasons
for terminating the agency arrangement. The payment service provider should
ensure that such information should continue to be relevant and updated on a
regular basis thereafter.
43

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
14-6 A payment service provider should conduct regular AML/CFT training for all
appointed agents similar to training of the payment service provider’s employees
and officers as required by paragraph 19.7 of the Notice.
44

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
15
15-1
15-2
15-3
15-4
15-5
15-6
15-7
15-7-1
15-7-2
15-7-3
Notice Paragraph 15 — Wire Transfers
In relation to paragraph 15.1 of the Notice, wire transfers include all forms of
electronic transmission including, but not limited to, email, facsimile, short
message service or other means of electronic transmission for payment
instructions.
In relation to paragraph 15.9 of the Notice, examples of domestic wire transfers
in Singapore include inter-bank transfers via the local MAS Electronic Payment
System (“MEPS+’).
Apayment service provider should not omit, delete or alter information in payment
messages, for the purpose of avoiding detection of that information by another Fl
in the payment process.
A payment service provider should monitor payment messages to and from
higher risk countries or jurisdictions, as well as transactions with higher risk
countries or jurisdictions and suspend or reject payment messages or
transactions with sanctioned parties or countries or jurisdictions.
Where name screening checks confirm that the wire transfer originator or wire
transfer beneficiary is a terrorist or terrorist entity, the requirement for the payment
service provider to block, reject or freeze assets of these terrorists or terrorist
entities cannot be risk-based.
Where there are positive hits arising from name screening checks, they should
be escalated to the AML/CFT compliance function. The decision to approve or
reject the receipt or release of the wire transfer should be made at an appropriate
level and documented.
Notice Paragraphs 15.3 to 15.11
Responsibility of the Ordering Institution
For joint accounts, the ordering institution shall provide all of the joint account
holders’ information to the beneficiary institution in accordance with paragraph
7.49 of the Notice.
The ordering institution shall include wire transfers in its ongoing monitoring of
the business relations with the customer or review of transactions undertaken
without an account being opened, in accordance with paragraph 7 of the Notice.
In relation to paragraph 15.3 of the Notice, ‘value date’ refers to the date of receipt
of funds by the wire transfer beneficiary.
45

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
15-8
15-8-1
15-8-2
15-9
15-9-1
Notice Paragraphs 15.12 to 15.15
Responsibility of the Beneficiary Institution
Where an incoming wire transfer is not accompanied by complete wire transfer
Originator information and wire transfer beneficiary, a beneficiary institution shall
request the information from the ordering institution. A payment service provider
should consider rejecting incoming wire transfers or terminating business
relations with overseas ordering institutions that fail to provide originator
information. An STR should be filed if appropriate. In this regard, a payment
service provider should be mindful of any requirements that may be imposed on
the overseas ordering institution, either by law or as a regulatory measure, in
relation to cross-border wire transfers.
As part of its internal risk-based policies, procedures and controls, a payment
service provider should consider rejecting incoming wire transfers or terminating
business relations with overseas ordering institutions if the payment service
provider is not satisfied that it can justify to the Authority the reasons for executing
wire transfers that lack full originator information.
Notice Paragraphs 15.16 to 15.20
Responsibility of the Intermediary Institution
An intermediary institution is required under the Notice to retain, and to pass on
to the beneficiary institution or another intermediary institution that it effects a wire
transfer to, all the information accompanying a wire transfer effected from an
ordering institution or another intermediary institution, to it. The information
accompanying the wire transfer will be either the unique transaction reference
number, as permitted by the Notice, or the full originator and wire transfer
beneficiary information.
46

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
18
18-1
18-2
18-3
18-4
18-5
18-6
Notice Paragraph 18 — Suspicious Transactions Reporting
A payment service provider should ensure that the internal process for evaluating
whether a matter should be referred to the Suspicious Transaction Reporting
Office (“STRO”) via an STR is completed without delay and should not exceed 15
business days of the case being referred by the relevant employee or officer,
unless the circumstances are exceptional or extraordinary.
A payment service provider should note that an STR filed with STRO would also
meet the reporting obligations under the TSOFA.
Examples of suspicious transactions are set out in Appendix B of these
Guidelines. These examples are not intended to be exhaustive and are only
examples of basic ways in which money may be laundered or used for TF
purposes. Identification of Suspicious transactions should prompt further
enquiries and where necessary, investigations into the source of funds. A
payment service provider should also consider filing an STR if there is any
adverse news on its customers in relation to financial crimes. A transaction or
activity may not be suspicious at the time, but if Suspicions are raised later, an
obligation to report then arises.
Once suspicion has been raised in relation to a customer or any transaction for
that customer, in addition to reporting the suspicious activity, a payment service
provider should ensure that appropriate action is taken to adequately mitigate the
risk of the payment service provider being used for ML/TF activities. This may
include strengthening its AML/CFT processes. This may also include a review of
either the risk classification of the customer, or the business relations with the
customer. Appropriate action should be taken, including escalating the issue to
the appropriate decision making level, taking into account any other relevant
factors, such as cooperation with law enforcement agencies.
STR reporting templates are available on CAD’s website®. Payment service
providers are strongly encouraged to use SONAR, the online system provided by
STRO, to lodge STRs. In the event that the payment service provider is of the
view that STRO should be informed on an urgent basis, particularly where a
transaction is known to be part of an ongoing investigation by the relevant
authorities, a payment service provider should give initial notification to STRO by
phone or email and follow up with such other means of reporting as STRO may
direct.
A payment service provider should document all transactions that have been
brought to the attention of its AML/CFT compliance function, including
transactions that are not reported to STRO. To ensure that there is proper
accountability for decisions made, the basis for not submitting STRs for any
8 The website address as at 2 April 2024: https:/Avww.police.gov.sg/Advisories/Crime/Commercial-Crimes/Suspicious-
Transaction-Reporting-Office
47

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
18-7
suspicious transactions escalated by its employees and officers should be
properly substantiated and documented.
Payment service providers are reminded to read paragraph 18.4 of the Notice
together with paragraphs 7.46, 7.47 and 7.48 of the Notice. Where a payment
service provider stops performing CDD measures as permitted under paragraph
18.4 and is, as a result, unable to complete CDD measures (as specified under
paragraph 7.47), the payment service provider is reminded that it shall not
commence or continue the business relations with that customer or undertake
any transaction for that customer.
48

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
19
19-1
19-2
19-2-1
19-2-2
Notice Paragraph 19 — Internal Policies, Compliance, Audit and Training
As internal policies and procedures serve to guide employees and officers in
ensuring compliance with AML/CFT laws and regulations, it is important that a
payment service provider updates its policies and procedures in a timely manner,
to take into account new operational, legal and regulatory developments and
emerging or new ML/TF risks.
Notice Paragraphs 19.3 to 19.4
Compliance
A payment service provider should ensure that the AML/CFT compliance officer
has the necessary seniority and authority to effectively perform his
responsibilities.
The responsibilities of the AML/CFT compliance officer should include —
(a) carrying out, or overseeing the carrying out of
(i) ongoing monitoring of business relations or review of transactions
undertaken without an account being opened; and
(ii) sample review of accounts or transactions for compliance with the Notice
and these Guidelines;
(b) promoting compliance with the Notice and these Guidelines, as well as the
FSM Sanctions Regulations, and taking overall charge of all AML/CFT matters
within the organisation;
(c) informing employees and officers promptly of regulatory changes;
(d) ensuring a speedy and appropriate reaction to any matter in which ML/TF is
suspected;
(e) reporting, or overseeing the reporting of, suspicious transactions;
(f) advising and training employees and officers on developing and implementing
internal policies, procedures and controls on AML/CFT;
(g) reporting to senior management on the outcome of reviews of the payment
service provider’s compliance with the Notice and these Guidelines, as well as
the FSM Sanctions Regulations and risk assessment procedures; and
49

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
19-2-3
19-3
19-3-1
19-3-2
(h) reporting regularly on key AML/CFT risk management and control issues
(including information outlined in paragraph 1-4-15 of the Guidelines), and any
necessary remedial actions, arising from audit, inspection, and compliance
reviews, to the payment service provider's senior management, at least
annually and as and when needed.
The business interests of a payment service provider should not interfere with the
effective discharge of the above-mentioned responsibilities of the AML/CFT
compliance officer, and potential conflicts of interest should be avoided. To enable
unbiased judgments and facilitate impartial advice to management, the AML/CFT
compliance officer should, for example, be distinct from the internal audit and
business line functions. Where any conflicts between business lines and the
responsibilities of the AML/CFT compliance officer arise, procedures should be in
place to ensure that AML/CFI concerns are objectively considered and
addressed at the appropriate level of the payment service provider’s
management.
Notice Paragraph 19.5
Audit
A payment service provider's AML/CFT framework should be subject to periodic
audits (including sample testing). Auditors should assess the effectiveness of
measures taken to prevent ML/TF. This would include, among others —
(a) determining the adequacy of the payment service provider’s AML/CFT
policies, procedures and controls, ML/TF risk assessment framework and
application of risk-based approach;
(b) reviewing the content and frequency of AML/CFT training programmes, and
the extent of employees’ and officers’ compliance with established AML/CFT
policies and procedures; and
(c) assessing whether instances of non-compliance are reported to senior
management on a timely basis.
The frequency and extent of the audit should be commensurate with the ML/TF
risks presented and the size and complexity of the payment service provider’s
business.
50

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
19-4
19-4-1
19-4-2
19-5
19-5-1
19-5-2
19-5-3
Notice Paragraph 19.6
Employee Hiring
The screening procedures applied when a payment service provider hires
employees and appoints officers should include —
(a) background checks with past employers;
(b) screening against ML/TF information sources; and
(c) bankruptcy searches.
In addition, a payment service provider should conduct credit history checks, on
a risk-based approach, when hiring employees and appointing officers.
Notice Paragraph 19.7
Training
As stated in paragraph 19.7 of the Notice, it is a payment service provider’s
responsibility to provide adequate training for its employees and officers so that
they are adequately trained to implement its AML/CFT policies and procedures.
The scope and frequency of training should be tailored to the specific risks faced
by the payment service provider and pitched according to the job functions,
responsibilities and experience of the employees and officers. New employees
and officers should be required to attend training as soon as possible after being
hired or appointed.
Apart from the initial training, a payment service provider should also provide
refresher training at least once every two years, or more regularly as appropriate,
to ensure that employees and officers are reminded of their responsibilities and
are kept informed of new developments related to ML/TF. A payment service
provider should maintain the training records for audit purposes.
A payment service provider should monitor the effectiveness of the training
provided to its employees and officers. This may be achieved by —
(a) testing their understanding of the payment service provider’s policies and
procedures to combat ML/TF, their obligations under relevant laws and
regulations, and their ability to recognise suspicious transactions;
(b) monitoring their compliance with the payment service provider's AML/CFT
policies, procedures and controls as well as the quality and quantity of
internal reports so that further training needs may be identified and
appropriate action taken; and
51

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
(Cc) monitoring attendance and following up with employees and officers who
miss such training without reasonable cause.
52

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
I-1
|-1-1
|-1-2
|-1-3
-1-4
I-1-5
|-2-1
Other Key Topics - Guidance to Payment Service Providers on Proliferation
Financing
Overview
MAS issues the FSM Sanctions Regulations in order to discharge or facilitate the
discharge of any obligation binding on Singapore by virtue of a United Nations
Security Council Resolution (‘UNSCR’)’. These Regulations apply to all Fis
(including payment service providers) regulated by MAS and generally impose
financial sanctions on designated persons and prohibit specified activities.
Specifically, a UNSCR may designate certain individuals and entities involved in
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and its financing. The relevant
information and full listings of persons designated by UNSCRs can be found on
the UN website’®.
MAS has given effect to relevant UNSCRs, including those as listed by the FATF
Recommendations (2012) to be relevant to combating proliferation financing by
issuing the FSM Sanctions Regulations. Examples of such Regulations are the
Financial Services and Markets (Sanctions and Freezing of Assets of Persons —
Iran) Regulations 2023 and the Financial Services and Markets (Sanctions and
Freezing of Assets of Persons — Democratic People’s Republic of Korea)
Regulations 2023.
A payment service provider should rely on its CDD measures (including screening
measures) under the Notice to detect and prevent proliferation financing activities
and transactions.
A payment service provider should also ensure compliance with legal instruments
issued by MAS relating to proliferation financing risks, as well as take into account
any other guidance from MAS.
CDD and Internal Controls
It is important to ensure that name screening by a payment service provider, as
required under the Notice, is performed against the latest UN listings as they are
updated from time to time. A payment service provider should have in place
policies, procedures and controls to continuously monitor the listings and take
necessary follow-up action within a reasonable period of time, as required under
the applicable laws and regulations.
° Please refer to the MAS website for a full listing of Regulations issued by MAS pursuant to the United Nations Security
Council Resolutions.
'0 Please see: https:/Avww.un.org/securitycouncil/content/un-sc-consolidated-list
53

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
|-2-2
|-2-3
1-2-4
|-3-1
The payment service provider’s CDD policies and procedures should have clear
processes on the identification of the customer’s beneficial owners, and the
forming of a good understanding of the customer’s business and transactions from
the proliferation financing perspective. Enhanced due diligence measures,
including the conduct of periodic reviews and closer scrutiny (including on
counterparties) should also be applied where the customer or transaction pose
higher risks.
A payment service provider should also have policies and procedures to detect
attempts by its employees or officers to circumvent the applicable laws and
regulations (including the FSM Sanctions Regulations) such as —
(a) omitting, deleting or altering information in payment messages for the purpose
of avoiding detection of that information by the payment service provider itself
or other payment service providers involved in the payment process; and
(b) structuring transactions with the purpose of concealing the involvement of
designated persons.
A payment service provider should have policies and procedures to prevent such
attempts, and take appropriate measures against such employees and officers.
Obligation of Payment Service Provider to Freeze without Delay
A payment service provider is reminded of its obligations under the FSM Sanctions
Regulations to immediately freeze any funds, financial assets or economic
resources owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by designated persons that
the payment service provider has in its possession, custody or control. For the
avoidance of doubt, the obligations to freeze without delay also applies to all digital
payment tokens. The payment service provider should also promptly file an STR
in such cases.
Potential Indicators of Proliferation Financing
A payment service provider should develop indicators and monitoring capabilities
that would alert it to customers and transactions (actual or proposed) that are
possibly associated with proliferation financing-related activities, including
indicators such as whether —
(a) the customer is vague and resistant to providing additional information when
asked:
(b) the customer’s activity does not match its business profile;
54

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
())
(k)
(I)
the transaction involves designated persons;
the transaction involves higher risk countries or jurisdictions which are known
to be involved in proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or proliferation
financing activities;
the transaction involves other Fls with known deficiencies in AML/CFT controls
or controls for combating proliferation financing;
the transaction involves possible shell companies (e.g. companies that do not
have a high level of capitalisation or display other shell company indicators) or
front companies and transactions involving accounts held in third countries;
the transaction involves containers whose numbers have been changed or
ships that have been renamed;
the shipment of goods takes a circuitous route or the financial transaction is
structured in a circuitous manner;
the transaction involves the shipment of goods inconsistent with normal
geographic trade patterns (e.g. the country involved would not normally export
or import such goods);
the transaction involves the shipment of goods incompatible with the technical
level of the country to which goods are being shipped (e.g. semiconductor
manufacturing equipment shipped to a country with no electronics industry);
there are inconsistencies in the information provided in trade documents and
financial flows (e.g. in the names, companies, addresses, ports of call and final
destination); or
there are indications of illicit ship to ship transactions that have taken place
(e.g. (shipping documents on movement of goods may indicate atypical flows
or movements, or involving ports that would normally not be suitable to handle
specific products).
55

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-5 Other Sources of Guidance on Proliferation Financing
1-5-1 The FATF has also provided guidance on measures to combat proliferation
financing and a payment service provider may wish to refer to the FATF website
for additional information.
Il Useful Links
Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”): http:/Awww.fatf-gafi.org/
56

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
APPENDIX A — Examples of CDD Information for Customers (Including Legal
Persons/Arrangements)
Customer Type Examples of CDD Information
Sole proprietorships Full registered business name
Business address or principal place of business
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
the business relations or transaction with the payment
service provider
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
sole proprietor (where applicable)
Name of the sole proprietor
Information about the source of funds
A report of the payment service provider's visit to the
customer’s place of business, where the payment
service provider assesses it as necessary
Structure of the sole proprietor’s business (where
applicable)
Records in an independent company registry or
evidence of business registration
Partnerships and
unincorporated bodies
Full name of entity
Business address or principal place of business
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
the business relations or transaction with the payment
service provider
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
Names of all connected parties
Names of all beneficial owners
Information about the source of funds
A report of the payment service provider’s visit to the
customer’s place of business, where the payment
service provider assesses it as necessary
Ownership and control structure
Records in an independent company registry
Partnership deed
The customer’s membership with a relevant
professional body
Any association the entity may have with other
countries or jurisdictions (e.g. the location of the
entity’s headquarters, operating facilities, branches,
subsidiaries)
Companies Full name of entity
Business address or principal place of business
57

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN01 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
the business relations or transaction with the payment
service provider
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
Names of all connected parties
Names of all beneficial owners
Information about the source of funds
A report of the payment service provider's visit to the
customer’s place of business, where the payment
service provider assesses it as necessary
Ownership and control structure
Records in an independent company registry
Certificate of incumbency, certificate of good standing,
share register, as appropriate
Memorandum and Articles of Association
Certificate of Incorporation
Board resolution authorising the opening of the
customer’s account with the payment service provider
Any association the entity may have with other
countries or jurisdictions (e.g. the location of the
entity's headquarters, operating facilities, branches,
subsidiaries)
Public sector bodies,
government, state-
owned companies and
supranationals (other
than sovereign wealth
funds)
Full name of entity
Nature of entity (e.g. overseas government, treaty
organisation)
Business address or principal place of business.
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
business relations or transaction with the payment
service provider
Name of the home state authority and nature of its
relationship with its home state authority
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
Names of all connected parties
Information about the source of funds
Ownership and control structure
A report of the payment service provider's visit to the
customer’s place of business, where the payment
service provider assesses it as necessary
Board resolution authorising the opening of the
customer’s account with a payment service provider
58

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
Clubs, Societies and
Charities
Full name of entity
Business address or principal place of business
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
business relations or transaction with the payment
service provider |) Information about the nature of the
entity’s activities and objectives
Names of all trustees (or equivalent)
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
Names of all connected parties
Names of all beneficial owners
Information about the source of funds
A report of the payment service provider's visit to the
customer's place of business, where the payment
service provider assesses it as necessary
Ownership and control structure
Constitutional document
Certificate of registration
Committee/Board resolution authorising the opening
of the customer’s account with the payment service
provider
Records in a relevant and independent registry in the
country of establishment
Trust and Other
Similar Arrangements
(e.g. Foundations,
Fiducie, Treuhand and
Fideicomiso)
Full name of entity
Business address or principal place of business
Information about the nature, purpose and objectives
of the entity (e.g. discretionary, testamentary)
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
Names of all connected parties
Names of all beneficial owners
Information about the source of funds
A report of the payment service provider's visit to the
customer's place of business, where the payment
service provider assesses it is necessary
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
business relations or transaction with the payment
service provider
Records in a relevant and independent registry in the
country or jurisdiction of constitution
Country or jurisdiction of constitution
Trust deed
Names of the settlors/trustees/beneficiaries or any
person who has power over the disposition of any
property that is subject to the trust
59

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
¢ Declaration of trusts
¢ Deed of retirement and appointment of trustees
(where applicable)
60

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
APPENDIX B — Examples of Suspicious Transactions
B-1
B-1-1
B-1-2
B-1-3
B-1-4
General Comments
The list of situations given below is intended to highlight some basic ways in which
money may be laundered or used for TF purposes. While each individual situation
may not be sufficient to suggest that ML/TF is taking place, a combination of such
situations may be indicative of a suspicious transaction. The list is intended solely
as an aid, and must not be applied as a routine instrument in place of common
sense.
The list is not exhaustive and may be updated due to changing circumstances and
new methods of laundering money or financing terrorism. Payment service
providers are to refer to STRO’s website for the latest list of ML/TF red flags"’.
A customer’s declarations regarding the background of such transactions should
be checked for plausibility.
It is not unreasonable to proceed with caution any customer who is reluctant to
provide normal information and documents required routinely by the payment
service provider in the course of the business relations or when undertaking any
transaction without an account being opened. Payment service providers should
pay attention to customers who provide minimal, false or misleading information
or, when establishing business relations or undertaking a transaction without
Opening an account, provide information that is difficult or expensive for the
payment service provider to verify.
Transactions Which Do Not Make Economic Sense
I) Transactions that cannot be reconciled with the usual activities of the
customer.
il) A customer relationship with the payment service provider where a
customer has a large number of accounts with the same payment service
provider, and makes frequent transfers between different accounts.
ili) Transactions in which assets are withdrawn immediately after being
deposited, unless the customer’s business activities furnish a plausible
reason for immediate withdrawal.
iv) Transactions which, without plausible reason, result in the intensive use of
what was previously a relatively inactive account, such as a customer’s
1 The website address as at 2 April 2024: https:/Avww.police.gov.sg/Advisories/Crime/Commercial-Crimes/Suspicious-
Transaction-Reporting-Office
61

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
vi)
Vii)
viii)
xi)
xii)
xiil)
xiv)
account which shows virtually no normal personal or business related
activities but is used to received or disburse unusually large sums which
have no obvious purpose or relationship to the customer or his business.
A customer who appears to have accounts with several payment service
providers in the same locality, especially when the payment service provider
is aware of a regular consolidated process from such accounts prior to a
request for onward transmission of the funds elsewhere.
Large amount of e-money being topped up into an account, which is
inconsistent with the salary of the customer.
Transactions which are incompatible with the payment service provider’s
knowledge and experience of the customer in question.
Conceal or disguise significant transactions to avoid disclosure for record
purpose by executing frequent or several transactions such that each
transaction by itself is below CDD thresholds. For example, carrying out
several transactions, either in a single day or over a period of days, by
breaking them into smaller amounts in order to avoid the mandatory
threshold customer identification requirements.
“U-turn” transactions, i.e. where moneys received from a person or
company in a foreign jurisdiction are transferred to another person or
company in the same foreign jurisdiction, or to the sender’s account in
another jurisdiction.
Unnecessary routing of funds through multiple intermediary payment
service providers, financial institutions or persons.
Substantial increase(s) in the number of transactions/ frequency/ amounts
by a customer without apparent cause, especially if fund transfers are made
to a destination/ person not normally associated with the customer.
Substantial increase in e-money top-ups by a customer without apparent
Cause, especially if such top-ups are subsequently transferred within a short
period out of the account or to a destination not normally associated with
the customer
Concentration of payments where multiple senders transfer moneys to a
single individual’s account.
Transactions which lack an apparent relationship between the sender and
beneficiary, and/or personal money transfers sent to countries or
jurisdictions that have no apparent family or business link to customer,
and/or the customer has no relation to country where he/she sends/receives
62

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
the money and cannot sufficiently explain why money is sent there/received
from there.
Building up large balances, not consistent with the known turnover of the
customer’s business, and subsequent transfer to account(s) held overseas.
Transactions Involving Large Amounts of Cash
I)
vi)
vii)
viii)
xi)
Frequent transactions involving large cash amounts that do not appear to
be justified by the customer’s business activity or background.
Customers making large and/or frequent money transfers, mostly to
individuals and firms not normally associated with their business.
Customers transferring large amounts of money to persons outside
Singapore with instructions for payment in cash.
Exchanging an unusually large amount of small-denominated notes for
those of higher denomination in a different currency.
Numerous transactions by a customer, especially over a short period of
time, such that the amount of each transaction is not substantial, but the
cumulative total of which is substantial.
Customers who together, and simultaneously, use separate branches to
conduct large (cash) transactions.
Customers whose transactions involve counterfeit notes or forged
instruments.
Large and regular payments that cannot be clearly identified as bona fide
transactions, from and to countries associated with (a) the production,
processing or marketing of narcotics or other illegal drugs or (b) other
criminal conduct.
Cash payments transferred to a single person by a large number of different
persons without an adequate explanation.
Large cash withdrawals from a previously dormant/inactive account, or from
an account which has just received and unexpected large credit from
aboard.
A large amount of funds is withdrawn and immediately deposited into
another account.
63

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
B-4
Transactions Involving Accounts of the Customer with the Payment Service
Provider
I) High velocity of funds through an account, i.e. low beginning and ending
daily balances, which do not reflect the large volume of funds flowing
through an account.
Transfers of funds from a company’s account to an individual account of an
employee or persons related to the employee and vice-versa.
Transfers of funds from various third parties into an account, which is
inconsistent with the nature of the customer’s business.
Multiple users using a single account.
An account operated in the name of an offshore company with structured
movement of funds.
Transactions Involving Unidentified Parties
I) Transfer of money to another payment service provider without indication of
the beneficiary.
Use of pseudonyms or numbered accounts for effecting commercial
transactions by enterprises active in trade and industry.
Holding in trust of shares in an unlisted company whose activities cannot
be ascertained by the payment service provider.
Customers who wish to maintain a number of trustee or customers’
accounts that do not appear consistent with their type of business, including
transactions that involve nominee names.
Tax Crimes Related Transactions
I)
ii)
Negative tax-related reports from the media or other credible information
sources
Unconvincing or unclear purpose or motivation for establishing business
relations or conducting business transactions in Singapore.
Originating sources of multiple or significant deposits/withdrawals are not
consistent with declared purpose of the account.
64

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
IV) Inability to reasonably justify frequent and large fund transfers that originate
from or are being made to a beneficiary in a country or jurisdiction that
presents higher risk of tax evasion.
Purchase or sale of large amounts of precious metals by a customer which
is not in line with his business or background.
Trade-based Related Transactions
I)
vi)
vii)
viii)
xi)
The commodity is shipped to (or from) a country or jurisdiction designated
as “higher risk” for ML/TF activities.
The type of commodity shipped is designated as “higher risk” for ML/TF
activities’.
Significant discrepancies appear between the description of the commodity
on the bill of lading and the invoice.
Significant discrepancies appear between the description of the goods on
the bill of lading (or invoice) and the actual goods shipped.
Significant discrepancies appear between the value of the commodity
reported on the invoice and the commodity’s fair market value.
The size of the shipment appears inconsistent with the scale of the exporter
or importer’s regular business activities.
The type of commodity shipped appears inconsistent with the exporter or
importer’s regular business activities.
The method of payment appears inconsistent with the risk characteristics of
the transaction’.
The transaction involves the receipt of cash (or other payments) from third
party entities that have no apparent connection with the transaction.
The transaction involves the use of repeatedly amended or frequently
extended letters of credit.
The transaction involves the use of front (or shell) companies.
12 For example, high-value, low-volume goods (e.g. consumer electronics), which have high turnover rates and present
valuation difficulties.
13 For example, the use of an advance payment for a shipment from a new supplier in a high-risk country.
14 For example, the use of a forty-foot container to transport a small amount of relatively low-value goods.
65

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSNO1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
xii)
xiii)
The commodity is transhipped through one or more countries or jurisdictions
for no apparent economic reason.
The shipment does not make economic sense"“*.
Other Types of Transactions
I)
vi)
vii)
viii)
xi)
Account activity or transaction volume is not commensurate with the
customer’s known profile (e.g. age, occupation, income).
Transactions with persons in countries or entities that are reported to be
associated with terrorism activities or with persons that have been
designated as terrorists.
Frequent changes to the customer’s address or authorised signatories.
When a young person opens an account and either withdraws or transfers
the funds within a short period, which could be an indication of terrorism
financing.
When a person receives funds from a religious or charitable organisation
and exchanges the funds for a different currency, utilises the funds for
purchase of assets or transfers the funds to another person within a
relatively short period.
The customer fails to reasonably justify the purpose of a transaction when
queried by the payment service provider.
Transactions for which customers fail to provide a legitimate reason when
asked.
Transfers from one or more senders often from different countries and/or in
different currencies to a local person over a short period of time.
Periodic transfers made by several people to the same person or related
persons.
False information during the identification process/ lack of co-operation. Use
of third parties to transfer funds aimed at concealing the sender and/or
receiver of moneys.
The customer uses intermediaries which are not subject to adequate
AML/CFT laws.
66

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE PSN0O1 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
xii)
xiii)
xiv)
xvii)
Customers send or receive (regular) payments from persons in countries
which are regarded as “tax havens” or which are known to be exposed to
risks such as drug trafficking, terrorism financing, smuggling. Amounts
transacted are not necessarily large.
No or limited information about the origin of funds.
Funds used by a customer to settle his obligations are from a source(s) that
appears to have no explicit or direct links to the customer.
Banknotes brought by customer are in small denominations and dirty; stains
on the notes indicating that the funds have been carried or concealed, or
the notes smell musty; notes are packaged carelessly and precipitately;
when the funds are counted, there is a substantial difference between the
actual amount and the amount indicated by the customer (over or under).
Fund transfers made to high-risk countries or jurisdictions without
reasonable explanation, which are not consistent with the customer's usual
foreign business dealings.
Transactions that are suspected to be in violation of another country’s or
jurisdiction’s foreign exchange laws and regulations.
Customer Behaviour
i)
vi)
Customer is accompanied by others who keep a low profile or stay just
outside the premise. Customer appears to be in doubt when asked for
further details.
Customer is in a hurry to complete the transaction, with promises to provide
the supporting information later.
Customer shows no interest in costs and/or is happy with a poor rate.
Two or more customers appear to be trying to avoid reporting requirements
and seem to be working together to break one transaction into two or more
transactions.
The customer only seems to know the amount to be transferred after the
payment service provider has counted the customer’s moneys.
The customer buys currency that does not fit with what is known about the
customer's destination or the customer buys currency from an unusual
location in comparison to his/her own location.
67

