Monetary Authority of Singapore
GUIDELINES TO
MAS NOTICE 1014
ON PREVENTION OF
MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE
FINANCING OF
TERRORISM
24 APRIL 2015

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 Tal (cote [0 [e:t(0)9 nner 1
2 Notice Paragraph 2 — Definitions, Clarifications and Examples....................... 5
4 Notice Paragraph 4 — Assessing Risks and Applying a Risk-Based Approach
eee eee eee nee e eee eed eee eed deen e eee eeaeeeaa eee eeaees rf
5 Notice Paragraph 5 — New Products, Practices and Technologies................ 12
6 Notice Paragraph 6 — Customer Due Diligence ..............ccc cccceeeeeeeeeeeeee ees 13
7 Notice Paragraph 7 — Simplified Customer Due Diligence......................... 266
8 Notice Paragraph 8 — Enhanced Customer Due Diligence.......................... 288
9 Notice Paragraph 9 — Reliance on Third Parties....................ccceecccceeeeeeeeeees 344
10 Notice Paragraph 10 — Correspondent Banking and Similar Services......... 366
11 Notice Paragraph 11 — Wire Transfers ............0...cccccccececeeeceeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeenenas 388
14 Notice Paragraph 14 — Suspicious Transactions Reporting.....................0. 400
15 Notice Paragraph 15 — Internal Policies, Compliance, Audit and Training... 422
| Other Key Topics - Guidance to Merchant Banks on Proliferation Financing
lI Useful LINKS 20.0... cece cccccceeccccce eee ececeeaeeececeeaeeeeseseaeeceseeeaaeeeeeesaaeeeseesaaeeeeenes 49
APPENDIX A — Examples of CDD Information for Customers (Including Legal
Persons/ArrangGeMenttS) ............ccccccceecccceeseeeceeeesseeeeeeesseeeeeeesseeeeeees 500
APPENDIX B — Examples of Suspicious Transactions .................cccccceeeecceeeeaeeeeees 533
For ease of reference, the chapter numbers in these Guidelines mirror the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the MAS Notice 1014 on Prevention of Money
Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism — Merchant Banks (e.g.
Chapter 2 of the Guidelines provides guidance in relation to paragraph 2 of the
Notice). Not every paragraph in the Notice has a corresponding paragraph in these

Guidelines and this explains why not all chapter numbers are utilised in these
Guidelines.

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-3
1-4-1
1-4-2
1-4-3
Introduction
These Guidelines provide guidance to all merchant banks on the requirements in
MAS Notice 1014 on Prevention of Money Laundering and Countering the
Financing of Terrorism — Merchant Banks (‘the Notice”). These Guidelines should
be read in conjunction with the Notice.
The expressions used in these Guidelines have the same meanings as those
found in the Notice, except where expressly defined in these Guidelines or where
the context otherwise requires. For the purposes of these Guidelines, a reference
to “CDD measures” shall mean the measures as required by paragraphs 6, 7 and
8 of the Notice.
The degree of observance with these Guidelines by a merchant bank may have
an impact on the Authority's overall risk assessment of the merchant bank,
including the quality of its board and senior management oversight, governance,
internal controls and risk management.
Key Concepts
Money Laundering
Money laundering (“ML”) is a process intended to mask the benefits derived from
criminal conduct so that they appear to have originated from a legitimate source.
Singapore’s primary legislation to combat ML is the Corruption, Drug Trafficking
and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act (Cap. 65A). A merchant
bank should refer to the Commercial Affairs Department’s (“CAD”) website for
more information.
Generally, the process of ML comprises three stages, namely —
(a) Placement — The physical or financial disposal of the benefits derived from
criminal conduct.
(6) Layering — The separation of these benefits from their original source by
creating layers of financial transactions designed to disguise the ultimate
source and transfer of these benefits.
(c) Integration — The provision of apparent legitimacy to the benefits derived
from criminal conduct. If the layering process succeeds, the integration
schemes place the laundered funds back into the economy so that they re-
enter the financial system appearing to be legitimate funds.
Terrorism Financing
Acts of terrorism seek to influence or compel governments into a particular
course of action or to intimidate the public or a section of the public. Merchant
banks are reminded of the definitions of terrorism set out in the Terrorism

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-4-4
1-4-5
1-4-6
1-4-7
1-4-8
1-4-9
1-4-10
(Suppression of Financing) Act (Cap. 325) (“TSOFA’) and the United Nations
(Anti-terrorism Measures) Regulations (Rg. 1).
Terrorists require funds to carry out acts of terrorism, and terrorism financing
(“TF”) is the act of providing these funds. Such funds may be derived from
criminal activities such as robbery, drug-trafficking, kidnapping, extortion, fraud or
hacking of online accounts. In such cases, there may be an element of ML
involved to disguise the source of funds.
However, terrorist acts and organisations may also be financed from legitimate
sources such as donations from charities, legitimate business operations, self-
funding by individuals etc. Coupled with the fact that TF need not always involve
large sums of money, TF can be hard to detect and merchant banks should
remain vigilant.
Singapore’s primary legislation to combat TF is the TSOFA. Merchant banks may
refer to the Inter-Ministry Committee on Terrorist Designation’s (“IMC-TD”)
website for more information.
The Three Lines of Defence
Each merchant bank is reminded that the ultimate responsibility and
accountability for ensuring compliance with anti-money laundering and
countering the financing of terrorism (“AML/CFT”) laws, regulations and notices
rests with its board of directors and senior management.
A merchant bank’s board of directors and senior management are responsible for
ensuring strong governance and sound AML/CFT risk management and controls
at the merchant bank. While certain responsibilities can be delegated to senior
AML/CFT employees, final accountability rests with the merchant bank’s board of
directors and senior management. A merchant bank should ensure a strong
compliance culture throughout its organisation, where the board of directors and
senior management set the right tone. The board of directors and senior
management should set a clear risk appetite and ensure a compliance culture
where financial crime is not acceptable.
Business units (e.g. front office, customer-facing functions) constitute the first line
of defence in charge of identifying, assessing and controlling the ML/TF risks of
their business. The second line of defence includes the AML/CFT compliance
function, as well as other support functions such as operations, human resource
or technology, which work together with the AML/CFT compliance function to
identify ML/TF risks when they process transactions or applications or deploy
systems or technology. The third line of defence is the merchant bank’s internal
audit function.
As part of the first line of defence, business units require robust controls to detect
illicit activities. They should be allocated sufficient resources to perform this
function effectively. The merchant bank’s policies, procedures and controls on
AML/CFT should be clearly specified in writing, and communicated to all relevant
2

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-4-11
1-4-12
1-4-13
employees and officers in the business units. The merchant bank should
adequately train employees and officers to be aware of their obligations, and
provide instructions as well as guidance on how to ensure the merchant bank’s
compliance with prevailing AML/CFT laws, regulations and notices.
As the core of the second line of defence, the AML/CFT compliance function is
responsible for ongoing monitoring of the merchant bank’s fulfilment of all
AML/CFT duties by the merchant bank. This implies sample testing and the
review of exception reports. The AML/CFT compliance function should alert the
merchant bank’s senior management or the board of directors if it believes that
the employees or officers in the line departments are failing or have failed to
adequately address ML/TF risks and concerns. Other support functions such as
operations, human resource or technology also play a role to help mitigate the
ML/TF risks that the merchant bank faces. The AML/CFT compliance function is
typically the contact point regarding all AML/CFT issues for domestic and foreign
authorities, including supervisory authorities, law enforcement authorities and
financial intelligence units.
As the third line of defence, the merchant bank’s internal audit function or an
equivalent function plays an important role in independently evaluating the
AML/CFT risk management framework and controls for purposes of reporting to
the audit committee of the merchant bank’s board of directors, or a similar
oversight body. This independent evaluation is achieved through the internal
audit or equivalent function’s periodic evaluations of the effectiveness of the
merchant bank’s compliance with prevailing AML/CFT policies, procedures and
controls. A merchant bank should establish policies for periodic AML/CFT internal
audits covering areas such as —
(a) the adequacy of the merchant bank’s AML/CFT policies, procedures and
controls in identifying ML/TF risks, addressing the identified risks and
complying with laws, regulations and notices;
(b) the effectiveness of the merchant bank’s employees and officers in
implementing the merchant bank’s policies, procedures and controls;
(c) the effectiveness of the compliance oversight and quality control including
parameters and criteria for transaction alerts; and
(d) the effectiveness of the merchant bank’s training of relevant employees and
officers.
Governance
Strong board and senior management leadership is indispensable in the
oversight of the development and implementation of a sound AML/CFT risk
management framework across the merchant bank. The board of directors and
senior management should ensure that the merchant bank’s processes are
robust and there are adequate risk mitigating measures in place. The successful
implementation and effective operation of a risk-based approach to AML/CFT
3

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-4-14
depends on the merchant bank’s employees and officers having a good
understanding of the ML/TF risks inherent in the merchant bank’s business.
A merchant bank’s board of directors and senior management should understand
the ML/TF risks the merchant bank is exposed to and how the merchant bank’s
AML/CFT control framework operates to mitigate those risks. This should involve
the board and senior management —
(a) receiving sufficient, frequent and objective information to form an accurate
picture of the ML/TF risks including emerging or new ML/TF risks, which the
merchant bank is exposed to through its activities and individual business
relations;
(b) receiving sufficient and objective information to assess whether the merchant
bank’s AML/CFT controls are adequate and effective;
(c) receiving information on legal and regulatory developments and the impact
these have on the merchant bank’s AML/CFT framework; and
(d) ensuring that processes are in place to escalate important decisions that
directly impact the ability of the merchant bank to address and control ML/TF
risks, especially where AML/CFT controls are assessed to be inadequate or
ineffective.

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
2-2
2-3
Notice Paragraph 2 — Definitions, Clarifications and Examples
Connected Party
The term “partnership” as it appears in the definition of “connected parties”
includes foreign partnerships. The term “manager” as it appears in limb (b) of the
definition of “connected parties” takes reference from section 2(1) of the Limited
Liability Partnership Act (Cap. 163A) and section 28 of the Limited Partnership
Act (Cap. 163B).
Examples of natural persons with executive authority in a company include the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. An example of a natural person with
executive authority in a partnership is the Managing Partner.
Customer
When performing Customer Due Diligence (“CDD”) measures in the scenarios
below, the following approaches may be adopted:
(a) Portfolio Managers
A merchant bank may encounter cases where, to its knowledge, the
customer is a manager of a portfolio of assets and who is operating the
account in that capacity. In such cases, the underlying investors of the
portfolio shall be beneficial owners within the meaning of the Notice.
However, the Authority recognises that a merchant bank may not be able to
perform CDD measures on the underlying investors. For instance, the
portfolio manager may be reluctant, for commercial reasons, to reveal
information on the underlying investors to the merchant bank. In such
circumstances, the merchant bank should evaluate the risks arising from
each case and determine the appropriate CDD measures to take. The
merchant bank may consider whether simplified CDD (“SCDD”) measures
could be applied to underlying investors under paragraph 7 of the Notice.
However, where the customer falls within paragraph 6.16 of the Notice, the
merchant bank is exempted from making inquiries about the existence of
such underlying investors (i.e. beneficial owners). Therefore, the merchant
bank does not need to identify and verify such underlying investors.
(b) Credit or Charge Card Customers
Where a merchant bank issues a credit card or a charge card as defined in
section 56 of the Banking Act (Cap. 19), or a particular type of credit card or
charge card defined in regulation 2 of the Banking (Credit Card and Charge
Card) Regulations 2013 (such as a business card, business card with no
personal liability, corporate card, guarantee card, corporate card with no
personal liability, corporate purchasing card, guaranteed credit card or
guaranteed charge card), the following are customers for the purposes of the
Notice:
(i) the principal credit card or charge card holder;
(ii) any supplementary credit card or charge card holder;

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
2-4
2-6
2-7
(ili) | any employee to whom the business card is issued;
(iv) | the sole proprietor or partnership which bears liability for the business
card issued;
(v) any employee or officer of a body corporate to whom the corporate
card is issued, and the body corporate; and
(vi) the guarantor of any guaranteed credit card or guaranteed charge
card.
A merchant for whom the merchant bank opens or maintains an account
(including a ledger account) for the purchase of goods by, or provision of
services to any person from the merchant, using any credit card or charge
card, should be considered a customer for the purposes of the Notice.
(c) Location of Relationship Management
Given the globalised nature of modern banking, it may often be the case that
a merchant bank’s relationship and transactions with a particular customer is
managed by a merchant bank’s employee or officer based in one country or
jurisdiction but the account itself is held with an office in another country or
jurisdiction for book-keeping purposes. The Authority will generally look at the
substance of the relationship management as a whole. A merchant bank
should perform the applicable CDD measures if in substance, the relationship
or account is managed by an employee or officer of the merchant bank in
Singapore even though the account is booked in another country or
jurisdiction. However, the merchant bank may rely on the CDD measures
carried out by its related entity (or in the case of a branch network, another
branch of the merchant bank) in accordance with paragraph 9 of the Notice.
Financial Advice
The merchant bank need not perform the CDD measures where the merchant
bank solely prospects natural persons, legal persons or legal arrangements,
without the provision of financial advice.
Legal Arrangements
In relation to the definition of “legal arrangement” in the Notice, examples of legal
arrangements are trust, fiducie, treuhand and fideicomiso.
Legal Persons
In relation to the definition of “legal person” in the Notice, examples of legal
persons are companies, bodies corporate, foundations, anstalt, partnerships,
joint ventures or associations.
Officer
A reference to “officer” refers to a merchant bank’s board of directors and senior
management.

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
4-2
4-3
Notice Paragraph 4 — Assessing Risks and Applying a Risk-Based Approach
Countries or Jurisdictions of its Customers
In relation to a customer who is a natural person, this refers to the nationality and
place of domicile, business or work. For a customer who is a legal person or
arrangement, this refers to both the country or jurisdiction of establishment,
incorporation, or registration, and, if different, the country or jurisdiction of
operations as well.
Other Relevant Authorities in Singapore
Examples include law enforcement authorities (e.g. Singapore Police Force,
Commercial Affairs Department, Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau) and
other government authorities (e.g. Attorney General’s Chambers, Ministry of
Home Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Law).
Risk Assessment
In addition to assessing the ML/TF risks presented by an individual customer, a
merchant bank shall identify and assess ML/TF risks on an enterprise-wide level.
This shall include a consolidated assessment of the merchant bank’s ML/TF risks
that exist across all its business units, product lines and delivery channels. The
enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment relates to a merchant bank in Singapore
in the following ways:
(a) A merchant bank incorporated in Singapore shall take into account the ML/TF
risks of its branches and subsidiaries, including those outside Singapore, as
part of its consolidated assessment of its enterprise-wide ML/TF risks.
(b) The Singapore merchant bank branch of a bank incorporated outside
Singapore may refer to an enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment performed
by the head office, group or regional AML/CFT function, provided that the
assessment adequately reflects the ML/TF risks faced in the context of its
operations in Singapore.
The enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment is intended to enable the merchant
bank to better understand its overall vulnerability to ML/TF risks and forms the
basis for the merchant bank’s overall risk-based approach.
A merchant bank’s senior management shall approve its enterprise-wide ML/TF
risk assessment and relevant business units should give their full support and
active co-operation to the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment.
In conducting an enterprise-wide risk assessment, the broad ML/TF risk factors
that the merchant bank should consider include —
(a) in relation to its customers —
(i) target customer markets and segments;

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
(ii) profile and number of customers identified as higher risk;
(iii) volumes and sizes of its customers’ transactions and funds transfers,
considering the usual activities and the risk profiles of its customers;
(b) in relation to the countries or jurisdictions its customers are from or in, or
where the merchant bank has operations in —
(i) countries or jurisdictions the merchant bank is exposed to, either through
(il)
its own activities (including where its branches and subsidiaries operate
in) or the activities of its customers (including the merchant bank’s
network of correspondent banking relationships), especially countries or
jurisdictions with relatively higher levels of corruption, organised crime or
inadequate AML/CFT measures, as identified by the Financial Action
Task Force (“FATF’”):
when assessing ML/TF risks of countries and jurisdictions, the following
criteria may be considered:
evidence of adverse news or relevant public criticism of a country or
jurisdiction, including FATF public documents on High Risk and Non-
cooperative jurisdictions;
independent and public assessment of the country’s or jurisdiction’s
overall AML/CFT regime such as FATF or FATF-Styled Regional
Bodies’ (“FSRBs’”) Mutual Evaluation reports and the IMF/AWVorld Bank
Financial Sector Assessment Programme Reports or Reports on the
Observance of Standards and Codes for guidance on the country’s or
jurisdiction's AML/CFT measures;
the AML/CFT laws, regulations and standards of the country or
jurisdiction;
implementation standards (including quality and effectiveness of
supervision) of the AML/CFT regime;
whether the country or jurisdiction is a member of international groups
that only admit countries or jurisdictions which meet certain AML/CFT
benchmarks;
contextual factors, such as_ political stability, maturity and
sophistication of the regulatory and supervisory regime, level of
corruption, financial inclusion etc;
(c) in relation to the products, services, transactions and delivery channels of the
merchant bank —
(i) the nature, scale, diversity and complexity of the merchant bank’s
business activities:
(ii) the nature of products and services offered by the merchant bank; and

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
4-7
4-10
4-11
(ili) the delivery channels, including the extent to which the merchant bank
deals directly with the customer, relies on third parties to perform CDD
measures or uses technology.
The scale and scope of the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment should be
commensurate with the nature and complexity of the merchant bank’s business.
As far as possible, a merchant bank’s enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment
should entail both qualitative and quantitative analyses to ensure that the
merchant bank accurately understands its exposure to ML/TF risks. A
quantitative analysis of the merchant bank’s exposure to ML/TF risks should
involve evaluating data on the merchant bank’s activities using the applicable
broad risk factors set out in paragraph 4-6.
As required by paragraph 4.1(d) of the Notice, a merchant bank shall take into
account all its existing products, services, transactions and delivery channels
offered as part of its enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment.
In assessing its overall ML/TF risks, a merchant bank should make its own
determination as to the risk weights to be given to the individual factor or
combination of factors.
Singapore’s National ML/TF Risk Assessment (“NRA”) Report
A merchant bank should incorporate the results of Singapore’s NRA Report into
its enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment process. When performing the
enterprise-wide risk assessment, a merchant bank should take into account any
financial or non-financial sector that has been identified as presenting higher
ML/TF risks. A merchant bank should consider the NRA results and_ its
enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment results when assessing the ML/TF risks
presented by customers from specific sectors.
The NRA also identifies certain prevailing crime types as presenting higher
ML/TF risks. A merchant bank should consider these results when assessing its
enterprise-wide ML/TF risks of products, services, transactions and delivery
channels and whether it is more susceptible to the higher risk prevailing crime
types. Where appropriate, a merchant bank should also take these results into
account as part of the merchant bank’s ongoing monitoring of the conduct of
customers’ accounts and the merchant bank’s scrutiny of customers’
transactions.
Risk Mitigation
The nature and extent of AML/CFT risk management systems and controls
implemented should be commensurate with the ML/TF risks identified via the
enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment. A merchant bank shall put in place
adequate policies, procedures and controls to mitigate the ML/TF risks.

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
4-14
4-15
4-16
A merchant bank’s enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment serves to guide the
allocation of AML/CFT resources within the merchant bank.
A merchant bank should assess the effectiveness of its risk mitigation procedures
and controls by monitoring the following:
(a) the ability to identify changes in a customer profile (e.g. Politically Exposed
Persons status) and transactional behaviour observed in the course of its
business;
(b) the potential for abuse of new business initiatives, products, practices and
services for ML/TF purposes;
(c) the compliance arrangements (through its internal audit or quality assurance
processes or external review);
(d) the balance between the use of technology-based or automated solutions
with that of manual or people-based processes, for AML/CFT risk
management purposes;
(e) the coordination between AML/CFT compliance and other functions of the
merchant bank;
(f) the adequacy of training provided to employees and officers and awareness
of the employees and officers on AML/CFT matters;
(g) the process of management reporting and escalation of pertinent AML/CFT
issues to the merchant bank’s senior management;
(h) the coordination between the merchant bank and regulatory or law
enforcement agencies; and
(i) the performance of third parties relied upon by the merchant bank to carry
out CDD measures.
Documentation
The documentation should include —
(a) the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment by the merchant bank;
(b) details of the implementation of the AML/CFT risk management systems and
controls as guided by the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment;
(c) the reports to senior management on the results of the enterprise-wide
ML/TF risk assessment and the implementation of the AML/CFT risk
management systems and controls; and
10

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
4-18
(d) details of the frequency of review of the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk
assessment.
A merchant bank should ensure that the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment
and the risk assessment information are made available to the Authority upon
request.
Frequency of Review
To keep its enterprise-wide risk assessments up-to-date, a merchant bank should
review its risk assessment at least once every two years or when material trigger
events occur, whichever is earlier. Such material trigger events include, but are
not limited to, the acquisition of new customer segments or delivery channels, or
the launch of new products and services by the merchant bank. The results of
these reviews should be documented and approved by senior management even
if there are no significant changes to the merchant bank’s enterprise-wide risk
assessment.
11

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
5
5-1
5-2
Notice Paragraph 5 — New Products, Practices and Technologies
International developments of new technologies to provide financial services are
fast-changing and growing at an accelerated pace. A merchant bank shall keep
abreast of such new developments and the ML/TF risks associated with them.
A merchant bank’s assessment of ML/TF risks in relation to new products,
practices and technologies is separate from, and in addition to, the merchant
bank’s assessment of other risks such as credit risks, operational risks or market
risks. For example, in the assessment of ML/TF risks, a merchant bank should
pay attention to new products, practices and technologies that deal with customer
funds or the movement of such funds. These assessments should be approved
by senior management and heads of business, risk and compliance.
An example of a “new delivery mechanism” as set out in paragraph 5 of the
Notice is mobile banking.
12

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-1
6-1-1
6-2
6-2-1
6-2-2
6-2-3
6-3-1
6-3-2
Notice Paragraph 6 — Customer Due Diligence
Notice Paragraph 6.2
Where There Are Reasonable Grounds for Suspicion prior to the
Establishment of Business Relations or Undertaking any Transaction
without opening an Account
In arriving at its decision for each case, a merchant bank should take into
account the relevant facts, including information that may be made available by
the authorities and conduct a proper risk assessment.
Notice Paragraphs 6.3 to 6.4
When CDD is to be Performed and Linked Transactions
Paragraph 6.4 of the Notice is applicable to a merchant bank when it undertakes
transactions for customers who or which have not established business relations
with the merchant bank.
A merchant bank should monitor whether the related or linked transactions
exceed the thresholds set out in paragraph 6.3(b) or paragraph 6.3(c) of the
Notice and should take these into consideration when formulating scenarios and
parameters.
Two or more transactions may be related or linked if they involve the same
sender or recipient. A merchant bank should be aware that transactions may be
entered into consecutively to deliberately restructure an otherwise single
transaction, with the intention of circumventing applicable thresholds set out in
the Notice in relation to the circumstances set out in paragraphs 6.3(b) or (c).
Notice Paragraphs 6.5 to 6.18
CDD Measures under Paragraphs 6.5 to 6.18
When relying on documents, a merchant bank should be aware that the best
documents to use to verify the identity of the customer are those most difficult to
obtain illicitly or to counterfeit. These may include government-issued identity
cards or passports, reports from independent company registries, published or
audited annual reports and other reliable sources of information. The rigour of the
verification process should be commensurate with the customer's risk profile.
A merchant bank should exercise greater caution when dealing with an unfamiliar
or a new customer. Apart from obtaining the identification information required by
paragraph 6.6 of the Notice, a merchant bank should (if not already obtained as
part of its account opening process) also obtain additional information on the
customers background such as occupation, employers name, nature of
13

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-4-1
6-4-2
6-5-1
6-5-2
6-5-3
business, range of annual income, other related accounts with the same
merchant bank and whether the customer holds or has held a prominent public
function. Such additional identification information enables a merchant bank to
obtain better knowledge of its customer’s risk profile, as well as the purpose and
intended nature of the account.
Notice Paragraph 6.6
Identification of Customer
With respect to paragraph 6.6(c) of the Notice, a P.O. box address should only
be used for jurisdictions where the residential address (e.g. street name or house
number) is not applicable or available in the local context.
A merchant bank should obtain a customer's contact details such as personal,
office or work telephone numbers.
Notice Paragraph 6.8
Identification of Customer that is a Legal Person or Legal Arrangement
Under paragraph 6 and paragraph 8 of the Notice, a merchant bank is required to
identify and screen all the connected parties of a customer. However, a merchant
bank may verify their identities using a risk-based approach’. A merchant bank is
reminded of its obligations under the Notice to identify connected parties and
remain apprised of any changes to connected parties.
Identification of connected parties may be done using publicly available sources
or databases such as company registries, annual reports or based on
substantiated information provided by the customers.
In relation to legal arrangements, a merchant bank shall perform CDD measures
on the customer by identifying the settlors, trustees, the protector (if any), the
beneficiaries (including every beneficiary that falls within a designated
characteristic or class) and any natural person exercising ultimate ownership,
ultimate control or ultimate effective control over the trust (including through a
chain of control or ownership), as required by paragraph 6.14 of the Notice.
‘For the guidance on SCDD measures in relation to the identification and verification of the identities of connected
parties of a customer, merchant banks are to refer to paragraph 7-3 of these Guidelines.
14

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-6
6-6-1
6-6-2
6-6-3
6-6-4
Notice Paragraph 6.9
Verification of Identity of Customer
Where the customer is a natural person, a merchant bank should obtain
identification documents that contain a clear photograph of that customer.
In verifying the identity of a customer, a merchant bank may obtain the following
documents:
(a) Natural Persons —
(i) name, unique identification number, date of birth and nationality based
on a valid passport or a national identity card that bears a photograph of
the customer; and
(ii) residential address based on national identity card, recent utility or
telephone bill, bank statement or correspondence from a government
agency;
(b) Legal Persons or Legal Arrangements —
(i) name, legal form, proof of existence and constitution based on certificate
of incorporation, certificate of good standing, partnership agreement,
trust deed, constitutional document, certificate of registration or any other
documentation from a reliable independent source; and
(ii) powers that regulate and bind the legal person or arrangement based on
memorandum and articles of association, and board resolution
authorising the opening of an account and appointment of authorised
signatories.
Further guidance on verification of different types of customers (including legal
persons or legal arrangements) is set out in Appendix A.
In exceptional circumstances where the merchant bank is unable to retain a copy
of the documentation used to verify the customer’s identity, the merchant bank
should record the following:
(a) information that the original documentation had served to verify;
(b) title and description of the original documentation produced to the merchant
bank’s employee or officer for verification, including any particular or unique
features or condition of that documentation (e.g. whether it is worn out, or
damaged);
(Cc) reasons why a copy of that documentation could not be made; and
15

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-6-5
6-6-6
6-6-7
6-6-8
6-7-1
6-7-2
(d) name of the merchant bank’s employee or officer who carried out the
verification, a statement by that employee or officer certifying verification of
the information against the documentation and the date of the verification.
Reliability of Information and Documentation
Where a merchant bank obtains data, documents or information from the
customer or a third party, it should ensure that such data, documents or
information is current at the time they are provided to the merchant bank.
Where the customer is unable to produce an original document, a merchant bank
may consider accepting a copy of the document —
(a) that is certified to be a true copy by a suitably qualified person (e.g. a notary
public, a lawyer or certified public or professional accountant); or
(b) if a merchant bank staff independent of the customer relationship has
confirmed that he has sighted the original document.
Where a document is in a foreign language, appropriate steps should be taken by
a merchant bank to be reasonably satisfied that the document does in fact
provide evidence of the customer's identity. The merchant bank should ensure
that any document that is critical for performance of any measures required
under the Notice is translated into English by a suitably qualified translator.
Alternatively, the merchant bank may rely on a translation of such document by a
merchant bank staff independent of the customer relationship who is conversant
in that foreign language. This is to allow all employees and officers of the
merchant bank involved in the performance of any measures required under the
Notice to understand the contents of the documents, for effective determination
and evaluation of ML/TF risks associated with the customer.
The merchant bank should ensure that documents obtained for performing any
measures required under the Notice are clear and legible. This is important for
the establishment of a customer’s identity, particularly in situations where
business relations are established without face-to-face contact.
Notice Paragraphs 6.10 to 6.12
Identification and Verification of Identity of Natural Person Appointed to Act
on a Customer’s Behalf
Appropriate documentary evidence of a customer's appointment of a natural
person to act on its behalf includes a board resolution or similar authorisation
documents.
Where there is a long list of natural persons appointed to act on behalf of the
customer (e.g. a list comprising more than 10 authorised signatories), the
16

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-8
6-8-1
6-8-2
6-8-3
6-8-4
6-8-5
6-8-6
merchant bank should verify at a minimum those natural persons to whom the
customer has assigned the authority to operate the customer's account with the
merchant bank or move the funds in and out of that account.
Notice Paragraphs 6.13 to 6.17
Identification and Verification of Identity of Beneficial Owner
A merchant bank should note that measures listed under paragraph 6.14(a)(i), (il)
and (iii) as well as paragraph 6.14(b)(i) and (ii) of the Notice are not alternative
measures but are cascading measures with each to be used where the
immediately preceding measure has been applied but has not resulted in the
identification of a beneficial owner.
In relation to paragraph 6.14(a)(i) and (b)(i) of the Notice, when identifying the
natural person who ultimately owns the legal person or legal arrangement, the
shareholdings within the ownership structure of the legal person or legal
arrangement should be considered. It may be based on a threshold (e.g. any
person owning more than 25% of the legal person or legal arrangement, taking
into account any aggregated ownership for companies with cross-shareholdings).
A natural person who does not meet the shareholding threshold referred to in
paragraph 6-8-2 above but who controls the customer (e.g. through exercising
significant influence), is a beneficial owner under the Notice.
A merchant bank may also consider obtaining an undertaking or declaration from
the customer on the identity of, and the information relating to, the beneficial
owner. Notwithstanding the obtaining of such an undertaking or declaration, the
merchant bank remains responsible for complying with its obligations under the
Notice to take reasonable measures to verify the identity of the beneficial owner
by, for example, researching publicly available information on the beneficial
owner or arranging a face-to-face meeting with the beneficial owner, to
corroborate the undertaking or declaration provided by the customer.
Where the customer is not a natural person and has a complex ownership or
control structure, a merchant bank should obtain enough information to
sufficiently understand if there are legitimate reasons for such ownership or
control structure.
A merchant bank should take particular care when dealing with companies with
bearer shares, since the beneficial ownership is difficult to establish. For such
companies, a merchant bank should adopt procedures to establish the identities
of the beneficial owners of such shares and ensure that the merchant bank is
notified whenever there is a change of beneficial owner of such shares. At a
minimum, these procedures should require the merchant bank to obtain an
undertaking in writing from the beneficial owner of such bearer shares stating that
the merchant bank shall be immediately notified if the shares are transferred to
another natural person, legal person or legal arrangement. Depending on its risk
17

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
assessment of the customer, the merchant bank may require that the bearer
shares be held by a named custodian, with an undertaking from the custodian
that the merchant bank will be notified of any changes to ownership of these
shares or the named custodian.
6-8-7 For the purposes of paragraph 6.16 of the Notice, where the customer is a legal
person publicly listed on a stock exchange and subject to regulatory disclosure
requirements relating to adequate transparency in respect of its beneficial owners
(imposed through stock exchange rules, law or other enforceable means), it is
not necessary to identify and verify the identities of the beneficial owners of the
customer.
6-8-8 In determining if the foreign stock exchange imposes regulatory disclosure and
adequate transparency requirements, the merchant bank should put in place an
internal assessment process with clear criteria, taking into account, amongst
others, the country risk and the level of the country’s compliance with the FATF
standards.
6-8-9 | Where the customer is a majority-owned subsidiary of a publicly listed legal
person, it is not necessary to identify and verify the identities of beneficial owners
of the customer. However, for such a customer, if there are other non-publicly
listed legal persons who own more than 25% of the customer or who otherwise
control the customer, the beneficial owners of such non-publicly listed legal
persons should be identified and verified.
6-8-10 Deleted with effect from 30 November 2015.
6-8-11 Deleted with effect from 30 November 2015.
6-8-12 Where a customer is one which falls within paragraph 6.16 of the Notice, this
does not in itself constitute an adequate analysis of low ML/TF risks for the
purpose of performing SCDD measures under paragraph 7 of the Notice.
Notice Paragraph 6.18
6-9 Information _on__ Purpose __ and__Intended_ _Nature _of _ Business
Relations
6-9-1 The measures taken by a merchant bank to understand the purpose and
intended nature of business relations should be commensurate with the
complexity of the customer's business and risk profile. For higher risk customers,
a merchant bank should seek to understand upfront the expected account activity
(e.g. types of transactions likely to pass through, expected amount for each
transaction, names of counterparties) and consider, as part of ongoing
monitoring, whether the activity corresponds with the stated purpose of the
accounts. This will enable a more effective ongoing monitoring of the customer’s
business relations and transactions.
18

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-10
6-10-1
6-10-2
6-10-3
6-10-4
6-10-5
6-10-6
Notice Paragraphs 6.19 to 6.26
Ongoing Monitoring
Ongoing monitoring of business relations is a fundamental feature of an effective
AMLI/CFT risk management system. Ongoing monitoring should be conducted in
relation to all business relations, but the merchant bank may adjust the extent
and depth of monitoring of a customer according to the customer’s ML/TF risk
profile. The adequacy of monitoring systems and the factors leading the
merchant bank to adjust the level of monitoring should be reviewed regularly for
effectiveness in mitigating the merchant bank’s ML/TF risks.
A merchant bank should make further enquiries when a customer performs
frequent and cumulatively large transactions without any apparent or visible
economic or lawful purpose. For example, frequent transfers of funds to the same
recipient over a short period of time, multiple deposits of cash such that the
amount of each deposit is not substantial, but the total of which is substantial.
Where there are indications that the risks associated with an existing business
relations may have increased, the merchant bank should request additional
information and conduct a review of the customer's risk profile in order to
determine if additional measures are necessary.
A key part of ongoing monitoring includes maintaining relevant and up-to-date
CDD data, documents and information so that the merchant bank can identify
changes to the customer's risk profile —
(a) for higher risk categories of customers, a merchant bank should obtain
updated CDD information (including updated copies of the customer’s
passport or identity documents if these have expired), as part of its periodic
CDD review, or upon the occurrence of a trigger event as deemed necessary
by the merchant bank, whichever is earlier; and
(b) for all other risk categories of customers, a merchant bank should obtain
updated CDD information upon the occurrence of a trigger event.
Examples of trigger events are when (i) a significant transaction takes place, (ii) a
material change occurs in the way the customer's account is operated, (ili) the
merchant bank’s policies, procedures or standards relating to the documentation
of CDD information change substantially, and (iv) the merchant bank becomes
aware that it lacks sufficient information about the customer concerned.
The frequency of CDD review may vary depending on each customer's risk
profile. Higher risk customers should be subject to more frequent periodic review
(e.g. On an annual basis) to ensure that CDD information such as nationality,
passport details, certificate of incumbency, ownership and control information
that the merchant bank has previously obtained remain relevant and up-to-date.
19

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-10-7
6-10-8
6-10-9
6-10-10
6-10-11
In determining what would constitute suspicious, complex, unusually large or
unusual pattern of transactions, a merchant bank should consider, amongst
others, international typologies and information obtained from law enforcement
and other authorities that may point to jurisdiction-specific considerations. As part
of Ongoing monitoring, a merchant bank should pay attention to transaction
characteristics, such as —
(a) the nature of a transaction (e.g. abnormal size or frequency for that customer
or peer group);
(ob) whether a series of transactions is conducted with the intent to avoid
reporting thresholds (e.g. by structuring an otherwise single transaction into a
number of cash transactions);
(c) the geographic destination or origin of a payment (e.g. to or from a higher risk
country); and
(d) the parties concerned (e.g. a request to make a payment to or from a person
on a sanctions list).
A merchant bank’s transaction monitoring processes or systems may vary in
scope or sophistication (e.g. using manual spreadsheets to automated and
complex systems). The degree of automation or sophistication of processes and
systems depends on the size and complexity of the merchant bank’s operations.
Nevertheless, the processes and systems used by the merchant bank should
provide its business units (e.g. front office and relationship managers) and
compliance officers (including employees and officers who are tasked with
conducting investigations) with timely information needed to identify, analyse and
effectively monitor customer accounts for ML/TF.
The transaction monitoring processes and systems should enable the merchant
bank to monitor multiple accounts of a customer holistically within a business unit
and across business units to identify any suspicious transactions. In the event
that a business unit discovers suspicious transactions in a customer's account,
such information should be shared across their business units (e.g. Private
Banking and Retail Banking business units) to facilitate a holistic assessment of
the ML/TF risks presented by the customer. Therefore, merchant banks should
have processes in place to share such information across business units. In
addition, merchant banks should perform trend analyses of transactions to
identify unusual or suspicious transactions. Merchant banks should also monitor
transactions with parties in high risk countries or jurisdictions.
In addition, merchant banks should have processes in place to monitor related
customer accounts holistically within and across business units, so as to better
understand the risks associated with such customer groups, identify potential
ML/TF risks and report Suspicious transactions.
20

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-10-12 The parameters and thresholds used by a merchant bank to identify suspicious
6-11
6-11-1
6-11-2
6-11-3
transactions should be properly documented and independently validated to
ensure that they are appropriate to its operations and context. A merchant bank
should periodically review the appropriateness of the parameters and thresholds
used in the monitoring process.
Notice Paragraphs 6.27 to 6.29
CDD Measures for Non-Face-to-Face Business Relations
A reference to “specific risks” in paragraph 6.27 of the Notice includes risks
arising from establishing business relations and undertaking transactions
according to instructions conveyed by customers over the internet, post, fax or
telephone. A merchant bank should note that applications and transactions
undertaken across the internet may pose greater risks than other non-face-to-
face business due to the following factors:
(a) the ease of unauthorised access to the facility, across time zones and
location;
(b) the ease of making multiple fictitious applications without incurring extra cost
or the risk of detection;
(c) the absence of physical documents; and
(d) the speed of electronic transactions,
that may, taken together, aggravate the ML/TF risks.
The measures taken by a merchant bank for verification of an identity in respect
of non-face-to-face business relations with or transactions for the customer will
depend on the nature and characteristics of the product or service provided and
the customer's risk profile.
Where verification of identity is performed without face-to-face contact (e.g.
electronically), a merchant bank should apply additional checks to manage the
risk of impersonation. The additional checks may consist of robust anti-fraud
checks that the merchant bank routinely undertakes as part of its existing
procedures, which may include —
(a) telephone contact with the customer at a residential or business number that
can be verified independently;
(6) confirmation of the customers address through an exchange of
correspondence or other appropriate method;
21

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-12
6-12-1
6-12-2
6-12-3
6-13
6-13-1
6-13-2
(c) subject to the customer's consent, telephone confirmation of the customer's
employment status with his employers human resource department at a
listed business number of the employer;
(d) confirmation of the customer’s salary details by requiring the presentation of
recent bank statements from another bank, where applicable;
(e) provision of certified identification documents by lawyers or notaries public; or
(f) requiring the customer to make an initial deposit into the account with the
merchant bank from funds held by the customer in an account with another
bank in Singapore.
Notice Paragraph 6.30
Reliance by Acquiring Bank on Measures Already Performed
When a merchant bank acquires the business of another financial institution
(“FI”), either in whole or in part, it is not necessary for the identity of all existing
customers to be verified again, provided that the requirements of paragraph 6.30
of the Notice are met. A merchant bank shall maintain proper records of its due
diligence review performed on the acquired business.
Notwithstanding the reliance on identification and verification that has already
been performed, an acquiring merchant bank is responsible for its obligations
under the Notice.
When a merchant bank acquires the business of another FI, either in whole or in
part, the merchant bank is reminded that in addition to complying with paragraph
6.30 of the Notice, it is also required to comply with ongoing monitoring
requirements set out in paragraphs 6.19 to 6.26 of the Notice.
Notice Paragraphs 6.32 to 6.34
Timing for Verification
With reference to paragraph 6.33 of the Notice, an example of when the deferral
of completion of the verification is essential in order not to interrupt the normal
conduct of business operations is securities trades, where timely execution of
trades is critical given changing market conditions. One way a merchant bank
could effectively manage the ML/TF risks arising from the deferral of completion
of verification is to put in place appropriate limits on the financial services
available to the customer (e.g. limits on the number, type and value of
transactions that can be effected) and institute closer monitoring procedures, until
the verification has been completed.
With reference to paragraph 6.34 of the Notice —
22

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-14
6-14-1
6-14-2
6-15
6-15-1
(a) the completion of verification should not exceed 30 business days after the
establishment of business relations;
(b) the merchant bank should suspend business relations with the customer and
refrain from carrying out further transactions (except to return funds to their
sources, to the extent that this is possible) if such verification remains
uncompleted 30 business days after the establishment of business relations;
(c) the merchant bank should terminate business relations with the customer if
such verification remains uncompleted 120 business days after the
establishment of business relations; and
(d) the merchant bank should factor these time limitations in its policies,
procedures and controls.
Notice Paragraph 6.38
Existing Customers
In relation to customer accounts which pre-date the coming into force of the
current Notice, the merchant bank should prioritise the remediation of higher risk
customers.
In taking into account any previous measures as referred to in paragraph 6.38 of
the Notice, a merchant bank should consider whether —
(a) there has been any significant transaction undertaken, since the measures
were last performed, having regard to the manner in which the account is
ordinarily operated;
(b) there has been a material change, since the measures were last performed,
in the way that business relations with the customer are conducted;
(c) it lacks adequate identification information on a customer; and
(d) there has been a change in the ownership or control of the customer, or the
persons authorised to act on behalf of the customer in its business relations
with the merchant bank.
Notice Paragraphs 6.39 to 6.42
Screening
Screening is intended to be a preventive measure. A merchant bank is reminded
that all parties identified pursuant to the Notice are required to be screened,
irrespective of the risk profile of the customer.
23

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-15-2
6-15-3
6-15-4
Where screening results in a positive hit against sanctions lists, a merchant bank
is reminded of its obligations to freeze without delay and without prior notice, the
funds or other assets of designated persons and entities that it has control over,
so as to comply with applicable laws and regulations in Singapore, including the
TSOFA and MAS Regulations issued under section 27A of the Monetary
Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 186) (“MAS Act”) relating to sanctions and
freezing of assets of persons. Any such assets should be reported promptly to
the relevant authorities and a Suspicious Transaction Report (“STR”) should be
filed.
A merchant bank should put in place policies, procedures and controls that
clearly set out —
(a) the ML/TF information sources used by the merchant bank for screening
(including commercial databases used to identify adverse information on
individuals and entities, individuals and entities covered under MAS
Regulations issued pursuant to section 27A of the MAS Acct, individuals and
entities identified by other sources such as the merchant bank’s head office
or parent supervisory authority, lists and information provided by the
Authority and relevant authorities in Singapore);
(b) the roles and responsibilities of the merchant bank’s employees involved in
the screening, reviewing and dismissing of alerts, maintaining and updating
of the various screening databases and escalating hits;
(c) the frequency of review of such policies, procedures and controls;
(d) the frequency of periodic screening;
(e) how apparent matches from screening are to be resolved by the merchant
bank’s employees, including the process for determining that an apparent
match is a positive hit and for dismissing an apparent match as a false hit:
and
(f) the steps to be taken by the merchant bank’s employees for reporting
positive hits to the merchant bank’s senior management and to the relevant
authorities.
The level of automation used in the screening process should take into account
the nature, size and risk profile of a merchant bank’s business. A merchant bank
should be aware of any shortcomings in its automated screening systems. In
particular, it is important to consider “fuzzy matching” to identify non-exact
matches. The merchant bank should ensure that the fuzzy matching process is
calibrated to the risk profile of its business. As application of the fuzzy matching
process is likely to result in the generation of an increased number of apparent
matches which have to be checked, the merchant bank’s employees will need to
have access to CDD information to enable them to exercise their judgment in
identifying true hits.
24

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
6-15-5
6-15-6
6-15-7
6-15-8
6-15-9
6-15-10
A merchant bank should be aware that performing screening after business
relations have been established could lead to a breach of relevant laws and
regulations in Singapore relating to sanctioned parties. When the merchant bank
becomes aware of such breaches, it should immediately take the necessary
actions and inform the relevant authorities.
In screening periodically as required by paragraph 6.40(d) of the Notice, a
merchant bank should pay particular attention to changes in customer status
(e.g. whether the customer has over time become subject to prohibitions and
sanctions) or customer risks (e.g. a connected party of a customer, a beneficial
owner of the customer or a natural person appointed to act on behalf of the
customer subsequently becomes a Politically Exposed Person or presents higher
ML/TF risks, or a customer subsequently becomes a Politically Exposed Person
or presents higher ML/TF risks) and assess whether to subject the customer to
the appropriate ML/TF risk mitigation measures (e.g. enhanced CDD measures).
A merchant bank should ensure that the identification information of a customer,
a connected party of the customer, a natural person appointed to act on behalf of
the customer and a beneficial owner of the customer is entered into the merchant
bank’s customer database for periodic name screening purposes. This will help
the merchant bank to promptly identify any existing customers who have
subsequently become higher risk parties.
In determining the frequency of periodic name screening, a merchant bank
should consider its customers’ risk profile.
The merchant bank should ensure that it has adequate arrangements to perform
screening of the merchant bank’s customer database when there are changes to
the lists of sanctioned individuals and entities, covered by the TSOFA, MAS
Regulations issued under section 27A of the MAS Act? and MAS Notice MA-N-
EXT 1/2012 (“Prohibition on Transactions with the Iranian Government and with
lranian Financial Institutions”). The merchant bank should implement “four-eye
checks” on alerts from sanctions reviews before closing an alert, or conduct
quality assurance checks on the closure of such alerts on a sample basis.
With reference to paragraph 6.41 of the Notice, transaction screening should take
place on a real-time basis [i.e. the screening or filtering of relevant payment
instructions (e.g. MT103, MT 202) should be carried out before the transaction is
executed]. For intermediary institutions, identification information in the cover
payments (e.g. MT202COV) should be screened.
* Please refer to the following link for the relevant MAS ML/TF Regulations - http:/Avww.mas.gov.sg/Regulations-and-
Financial-Stability/Anti-Money-Laundering-Countering- The-Financing-Of-Terrorism-And-Targeted-Financial-
Sanctions/Targeted-Financial-Sanctions/MAS-Regulations.aspx
25

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
Notice Paragraph 7 — Simplified Customer Due Diligence
Paragraph 7.1 of the Notice permits a merchant bank to adopt a risk-based
approach in assessing the necessary measures to be performed, and to perform
appropriate SCDD measures in cases where the merchant bank is satisfied,
upon analysis of risks, that the ML/TF risks are low.
Where a merchant bank applies SCDD measures, it is still required to perform
ongoing monitoring of business relations under the Notice.
Under SCDD, a merchant bank may adopt a risk-based approach in assessing
whether any measures should be performed for connected parties of the
customers.
Where a merchant bank is satisfied that the risks of money laundering and
terrorism financing are low, a merchant bank may perform SCDD measures.
Examples of possible SCDD measures include —
(a) reducing the frequency of updates of customer identification information;
(b) reducing the degree of ongoing monitoring and scrutiny of transactions,
based on a reasonable monetary threshold; or
(c) choosing another method to understand the purpose and intended nature of
business relations by inferring this from the type of transactions or business
relations to be established, instead of collecting information as to the purpose
and intended nature of business relations.
Subject to the requirement that a merchant bank’s assessment of low ML/TF
risks is supported by an adequate analysis of risks, examples of potentially lower
ML/TFE risk situations include —
(a) Customer risk
(i) a Singapore Government entity;
(ii) entities listed on a stock exchange and subject to regulatory disclosure
requirements relating to adequate transparency in respect of beneficial
owners (imposed through stock exchange rules, law or other
enforceable means); and
(iii) an FI incorporated or established outside Singapore that is subject to
and supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements consistent
with standards set by the FATF.
(b) Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk
(i) |apension, superannuation or similar scheme that provides retirement
benefits to employees, where contributions are made by way of
26

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
(il)
deduction from wages, and the scheme rules do not permit the
assignment of a member's interest under the scheme; and
financial products or services that provide appropriately defined and
limited services to certain types of customers (e.g. to increase
customer access for financial inclusion purposes).
2/

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
8 Notice Paragraph 8 — Enhanced Customer Due Diligence
8-1 Where the ML/TF risks are identified to be higher, a merchant bank shall take
enhanced CDD (“ECDD”) measures to mitigate and manage those risks.
8-2 Examples of potentially higher risk categories under paragraph 8.7 of the Notice
include —
(a) Customer risk
(i)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
customers from higher risk businesses / activities / sectors identified in
Singapore’s NRA, as well as other higher risk businesses / activities /
sectors identified by the merchant bank;
the ownership structure of the legal person or arrangement appears
unusual or excessively complex given the nature of the legal person’s
or legal arrangement’s business;
legal persons or legal arrangements that are personal asset holding
vehicles;
the business relations is conducted under unusual circumstances (e.g.
significant unexplained geographic distance between the merchant
bank and the customer);
companies that have nominee shareholders or shares in bearer form;
and
cash-intensive businesses.
(b) Country or geographic risk
(i)
(il)
countries or jurisdictions the merchant bank is exposed to, either through
its own activities (including where its branches and subsidiaries operate
in) or the activities of its customers (including the merchant bank’s
network of correspondent banking relationships) which have relatively
higher levels of corruption, organised crime or inadequate AML/CFT
measures, as identified by the FATF; and
countries identified by credible bodies (e.g. reputable international bodies
such as Transparency International) as having significant levels of
corruption, terrorism financing or other criminal activity.
(c) Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk
(i) anonymous transactions (which may involve cash); and
(ii) frequent payments received from unknown or unassociated third parties.
28

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
8-3
8-4-1
8-4-2
8-4-3
8-4-4
8-4-5
8-5-1
When considering the ML/TF risks presented by a country or jurisdiction, a
merchant bank should take into account, where appropriate, variations in ML/TF
risks across different regions or areas within a country.
Notice Paragraph 8.1
Politically Exposed Persons (‘“PEPs”) Definitions
The definitions in paragraph 8.1 of the Notice are drawn from the FATF
Recommendations. The definition of PEPs is not intended to cover middle-
ranking or more junior individuals in the categories listed.
In the context of Singapore, domestic PEPs should include at least all
Government Ministers, Members of Parliament, Nominated Members of
Parliament and Non-Constituency Members of Parliament.
When determining whether a person is a “close associate” of a PEP, the
merchant bank may consider factors such as the level of influence the PEP has
on such a person or the extent of his exposure to the PEP. The merchant bank
may rely on information available from public sources and information obtained
through customer interaction.
With reference to paragraph 8.1 of the Notice, examples of an “international
organisation” include the United Nations and affiliated agencies such as the
International Maritime Organisation and the International Monetary Fund;
regional international organisations such as the Asian Development Bank,
Association of Southeast Asian Nations Secretariat, institutions of the European
Union, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; military
international organisations such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation; and
economic organisations such as the World Trade Organisation or the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Secretariat.
Examples of persons who are or have been entrusted with prominent functions
by an international organisation are members of senior management such as
directors, deputy directors and members of the board or equivalent functions.
Other than relying on information from a customer, the merchant bank may
consider information from public sources in determining whether a person has
been or is entrusted with prominent functions by an international organisation.
Notice Paragraphs 8.2 to 8.4
PEPs
If a merchant bank determines that any natural person appointed to act on behalf
of a customer or any connected party of a customer is a PEP, the merchant bank
should assess the ML/TF risks presented and consider factors such as the level
of influence that the PEP has on the customer. Merchant banks should consider
29

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
8-5-2
8-5-3
8-5-4
8-5-5
8-5-6
factors such as whether the PEP is able to exercise substantial influence over the
customer, to determine the overall ML/TF risks presented by the customer.
Where the customer presents higher ML/TF risks, the merchant bank should
apply ECDD measures on the customer accordingly.
It is generally acceptable for a merchant bank to refer to commercially available
databases to identify PEPs. However, a merchant bank should also obtain from
the customer details of his occupation and the name of his employer. In addition,
a merchant bank should consider other non-public information that the merchant
bank is aware of. A merchant bank shall exercise sound judgment in identifying
any PEP, having regard to the risks and the circumstances.
In relation to paragraph 8.3(a) of the Notice, the approval shall be obtained from
senior management. Inputs should also be obtained from the merchant bank’s
AML/CFT compliance function.
In relation to paragraph 8.3(b) of the Notice, a merchant bank may refer to
information sources such as asset and income declarations, which some
jurisdictions expect certain senior public officials to file and which often include
information about an official's source of wealth and current business interests. A
merchant bank should note that not all declarations are publicly available. A
merchant bank should also be aware that certain jurisdictions impose restrictions
on their PEPs’ ability to hold foreign bank accounts, to hold other office or paid
employment.
Source of wealth generally refers to the origin of the customer's and beneficial
owner's entire body of wealth (i.e. total assets). This relates to how the customer
and beneficial owner have acquired the wealth which is distinct from identifying
the assets that they own. Source of wealth information should give an indication
about the size of wealth the customer and beneficial owner would be expected to
have, and how the customer and beneficial owner acquired the wealth. Although
the merchant bank may not have specific information about assets that are not
deposited with or processed by the merchant bank, it may be possible to obtain
general information from the customer, commercial databases or other open
sources. Examples of appropriate and reasonable means of establishing source
of wealth are information and documents such as evidence of title, copies of trust
deeds, audited accounts, salary details, tax returns and bank statements.
Source of funds refers to the origin of the particular funds or other assets which
are the subject of the establishment of business relations (e.g. the amounts being
invested, deposited, or wired as part of the business relations). In order to ensure
that the funds are not proceeds of crime, the merchant bank should not limit its
source of funds inquiry to identifying the other Fl from which the funds have been
transferred, but more importantly, the activity that generated the funds. The
information obtained should be substantive and facilitate the establishment of the
provenance of the funds or reason for the funds having been acquired.
Examples of appropriate and reasonable means of establishing source of funds
are information such as salary payments or sale proceeds.
30

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
8-5-7
8-5-8
8-5-9
8-5-10
8-5-1 1
Based on its risk assessment of the PEP, a merchant bank should consider
whether the information regarding source of wealth and source of funds should
be corroborated. In relation to paragraph 8.3(b) of the Notice, examples of
“appropriate and reasonable means’ for establishing source of wealth or source
of funds are financial statements of the legal person or legal arrangement owned
or controlled by the PEP, site visits, a copy of the will (in cases where the source
of wealth or funds is an inheritance), and conveyancing documents (in cases
where the source of wealth or funds is a sale of property).
In relation to paragraph 8.3 of the Notice, other ECDD measures that may be
performed include —
(a) requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the
customers name with another FI subject to similar or equivalent CDD
standards;
(b) using public sources of information (e.g. websites) to gain a_ better
understanding of the reputation of the customer or any beneficial owner of a
customer. Where the merchant bank finds information containing allegations
of wrongdoing by a customer or a beneficial owner of a customer, the
merchant bank should assess how this affects the level of risk associated
with the business relations;
(c) commissioning external intelligence reports where it is not possible for a
merchant bank to easily obtain information through public sources or where
there are doubts about the reliability of public information.
In relation to paragraphs 8.4(a) and (b) of the Notice, where the merchant bank
assesses that the business relations or transactions with a domestic PEP or an
international organisation PEP do not present higher ML/TF risks and _ that
therefore ECDD measures need not be applied, the merchant bank shall
nevertheless apply measures under paragraph 6 of the Notice on the customer.
However, where changes in events, circumstances or other factors lead to the
merchant bank’s assessment that the business relations or transactions with the
customer present higher ML/TF risks, the merchant bank should review its risk
assessment and apply ECDD measures.
While domestic PEPs and international organisation PEPs may be subject to a
risk-based approach, it does not preclude such persons from presenting the
same ML/TF risks as a foreign PEP.
With reference to paragraph 8.4(c) of the Notice, while the time elapsed since
stepping down from a prominent public function is a relevant factor to consider
when determining the level of influence a PEP continues to exercise, it should not
be the sole determining factor. Other risk factors that the merchant bank should
consider are —
(a) the seniority of the position that the individual previously held when he was a
PEP; and
31

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
8-6
8-6-1
8-6-2
8-6-3
8-6-4
(6) whether the individual’s previous PEP position and current function are linked
in any way (e.g. whether the ex-PEP was appointed to his current position or
function by his successor, or whether the ex-PEP continues to substantively
exercise the same powers in his current position or function).
Notice Paragraphs 8.5 to 8.8
Other Higher Risk Categories
In relation to paragraph 8.7 of the Notice, a merchant bank may refer to the
preceding paragraph 8-5-8 of these Guidelines for further guidance on the ECDD
measures to be performed.
For customers highlighted in paragraph 8.6(a) of the Notice, a merchant bank
shall assess them as presenting higher ML/TF risks. For such customers, the
merchant bank shall ensure that the ECDD measures performed are
commensurate with the risks. For customers highlighted in paragraph 8.6(b) of
the Notice, a merchant bank shall assess whether any such customer presents a
higher risk for ML/TF and ensure that the measures under paragraph 6 of the
Notice, or ECDD measures where the merchant bank assesses the customer to
present a higher risk for ML/TF, performed are commensurate with the risk.
With reference to paragraph 8.6(a) of the Notice, a merchant bank should refer to
the FATF Public Statement on High Risk and Non-Cooperative Jurisdictions on
which FATF has called for counter-measures*. FATF updates this Public
Statement on a periodic basis and merchant banks should regularly refer to the
FATF website for the latest updates’.
For private banking business which inherently presents higher ML/TF risks, a
merchant bank should, regardless of the merchant bank’s_ internal risk
classification of the customer, refer to the sound practices highlighted in the MAS
Information Paper, “Guidance on Private Banking Controls”’. Such practices
include ensuring that —
(a) information obtained on the source of wealth of the customers and beneficial
owners should be independently corroborated against documentary evidence
or public information sources;
(b) parties screened should include operating companies and_ individual
benefactors contributing to the customer’s and beneficial owner’s wealth or
funds;
3 http://www. fatf-qafi.org/topics/high-riskandnon-cooperativejurisdictions/
4 The link to the FATF website is as follows: http://www. fatf-gafi.org/
° http: /Awww.mas.gov.sq/news-and-publications/monographs-and-information-papers/2014/quidance-on-private-banking-
controls.aspx
32

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
8-6-5
8-6-6
(c) the merchant bank conducts periodic reviews of such customers; and
(d) where the merchant bank is aware of customers having a common beneficial
owner or a customer having multiple accounts with the merchant bank, the
merchant bank should scrutinise transactions of these customer accounts
holistically to better identify suspicious, complex, unusually large or unusual
patterns of transactions, and perform periodic reviews on a consolidated
basis.
For the purposes of paragraph 8.8 of the Notice, regulations issued by the
Authority include the Regulations relating to the freezing of assets of persons and
sanctioning of persons.
With regard to tax and other serious crimes, as a preventive measure, merchant
banks are expected to reject a prospective customer where there are reasonable
grounds to suspect that the customer’s assets are the proceeds of serious
crimes, including wilful and fraudulent tax evasion. Where there are grounds for
suspicion in an existing customer relationship, merchant banks should conduct
enhanced monitoring and where appropriate, discontinue the relationship. If the
merchant bank is inclined to retain the customer, approval shall be obtained from
senior management with the substantiating reasons properly documented, and
the account subjected to close monitoring and commensurate risk mitigation
measures. This requirement applies to serious foreign tax offences, even if the
foreign offence is in relation to the type of tax for which an equivalent obligation
does not exist in Singapore. Examples of tax crime related suspicious
transactions are set out in Appendix B of these Guidelines.
33

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-1
9-2
9-3
9-4
9-5
Notice Paragraph 9 — Reliance on Third Parties
Paragraph 9 does not apply to outsourcing. Third party reliance under paragraph
9 of the Notice is different from an outsourcing arrangement or agreement.
In a third party reliance scenario, the third party will typically have an existing
relationship with the customer that is independent of the relationship to be formed
by the customer with the relying merchant bank. The third party will therefore
perform the CDD measures on the customer according to its own AML/CFT
policies, procedures and controls.
In contrast to a third party reliance scenario, the outsourced service provider
performs the CDD measures (e.g. performs centralised transaction monitoring
functions) on behalf of the merchant bank, in accordance with the merchant
bank’s AML/CFT policies, procedures and standards, and is subject to the
merchant bank’s control measures to effectively implement the merchant bank’s
AML/CFT procedures.
The merchant bank may take a variety of measures, where applicable, to satisfy
the requirements in paragraphs 9.2(a) and 9.2(b) of the Notice, including —
(a) referring to any independent and public assessment of the overall AML/CFT
regime to which the third party is subject, such as the FATF’s or FSRB’s
Mutual Evaluation reports and the IMF/AWorld Bank Financial Sector
Assessment Programme Reports/Reports on the Observance of Standards
and Codes;
(b) referring to any publicly available reports or material on the quality of that
third party's compliance with applicable AML/CFT rules;
(c) obtaining professional advice as to the extent of AML/CFT obligations to
which the third party is subject to with respect to the laws of the jurisdiction in
which the third party operates;
(d) examining the AML/CFT laws in the jurisdiction where the third party
operates and determining its comparability with the AML/CFT laws of
Singapore;
(e) reviewing the policies and procedures of the third party.
The reference to “documents” in paragraph 9.2(d) of the Notice includes a
reference to the underlying CDD-related documents and records obtained by the
third party to support the CDD measures performed (e.g. copies of identification
information, CDD/Know Your Customer forms). Where these documents and
records are kept by the third party, the merchant bank should obtain an
undertaking from the third party to keep all underlying CDD-related documents
and records for at least five years following the termination of the merchant
bank’s business relations with the customer or the completion of transactions
undertaken.
34

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
9-6
9-7
In a syndicated facility transaction, a participating merchant bank may rely on the
lead arranger’s confirmation that the necessary CDD measures have been
performed on the customer (i.e. borrower of the syndicated facility) to meet the
Notice requirements, provided that the participating merchant bank is satisfied
that the requirements in paragraph 9.2 of the Notice are met. However, a
participating merchant bank should perform its own CDD measures on the
customer in situations where its assessment of the customer’s ML/TF risk leads
to a higher risk classification than the lead arrangers assessment of the
customers ML/TF risks. Notwithstanding the reliance on CDD measures
performed by the lead arranger, the participating merchant bank remains
responsible for its obligations under the Notice.
Paragraph 9.3 of the Notice prohibits the merchant bank from relying on the third
party to carry out ongoing monitoring. Paragraph 9.3 of the Notice should be read
with the ongoing monitoring requirements in Part (VI) of paragraph 6 of the
Notice.
For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 9 of the Notice does not apply to the
outsourcing of the ongoing monitoring process by a merchant bank, including to
its parent entity, branches and subsidiaries. A merchant bank may outsource the
first-level review of alerts from the transaction monitoring systems, or sanctions
reviews, to another party. However, the merchant bank remains responsible for
complying with ongoing monitoring requirements under the Notice.
35

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
10
10-1
10-2
10-3
10-4
10-5
10-6
Notice Paragraph 10 — Correspondent Banking and Similar Services
Correspondent banks should note that the requirements under paragraph 10 of
the Notice are in addition to performing measures set out under paragraphs 6, 7
and 8 of the Notice, as applicable.
A correspondent bank typically acts as a correspondent for many banks or Fls
around the world. Respondent FIs may be provided with a wide range of
services, including cash management (e.g. interest-bearing accounts in a variety
of currencies), international wire transfers, cheque clearing, payable-through
accounts and foreign exchange services.
Correspondent banks should note that foreign exchange and money market
transactions do not fall within the scope of “similar services” as referred to in
paragraph 10.2 of the Notice.
After a correspondent bank obtains adequate information as required by
paragraph 10.3(a) of the Notice to establish a correspondent banking relationship
or the provision of similar services, such information should continue to be
updated on a periodic basis thereafter.
Other factors that a correspondent bank should consider in complying with
paragraph 10.3(a) of the Notice include —
(a) the business group to which the respondent FI belongs, country of
incorporation, and the countries or jurisdictions in which subsidiaries and
branches of the group are located;
(b) information about the respondent Fl’s management and ownership,
reputation, major business activities, target markets, customer base and their
locations;
(c) the purpose of the services provided to the respondent FI and expected
business volume; and
(d) the potential use of the account by other respondent Fls in a “nested”
correspondent banking relationship®: the merchant bank should review the
risks posed by such “nested” relationships.
To assess the ML/TF risk associated with a particular country or jurisdiction as
required by paragraph 10.3(a)(ill) of the Notice, a correspondent bank may rely
on information from the FATF mutual evaluation reports and statements on
countries or jurisdictions identified as either being subject to countermeasures or
having strategic AML/CFT deficiencies, mutual evaluation reports by FSRBs,
publicly available information from national authorities and any restrictive
° Nested correspondent banking refers to the use of a correspondent bank’s correspondent relationship by a number of
respondent Fls, through their relationships with the merchant bank’s direct respondent Fl, to conduct transactions and
obtain access to other financial services.
36

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
10-7
10-8
10-9
10-10
10-11
10-12
10-13
measures imposed on a_ country, particularly prohibitions on_ providing
correspondent banking or other similar services.
For correspondent banking relationships established with a merchant bank’s
related entities, the appropriate level of measures as required under paragraphs
6, 7 and 8 of the Notice (as applicable), and paragraph 10 of the Notice should
be applied, bearing in mind that the risk profiles of individual entities within the
same financial group could differ significantly. The merchant bank should take
into consideration the parent bank’s level of oversight and control over these
related entities, and other risk factors unique to the entities such as their
customers and products, the legal and regulatory environment they operate in,
and sanctions by authorities for AML/CFT lapses.
The CDD process should result in a thorough understanding of the ML/TF risks
arising from a relationship with the respondent FI. It should not be treated as a
“form-filling” exercise. A correspondent bank’s assessment of the respondent FI
may be enhanced through meetings with the respondent FI’s management and
compliance head, banking and AML/CFT regulators.
A correspondent bank may apply a risk-based approach in complying with the
requirements set out in paragraph 10 of the Notice, but should be mindful that
correspondent banking relationships generally present higher ML/TF risks.
If a correspondent bank provides correspondent banking or other similar services
to its related respondent Fls within the same financial group, the correspondent
bank should ensure that it still assesses the ML/TF risks presented by its related
respondent FI.
Where the head office of the financial group is incorporated in Singapore, it
should monitor the correspondent banking relationships between banks in its
financial group, and ensure that adequate information sharing mechanisms within
the financial group are in place.
For the purposes of paragraph 10 of the Notice, a correspondent bank should
take into account, for example, any sanctions imposed by relevant authorities on
a respondent FI for failing to have adequate controls against ML/TF activities.
In assessing whether a bank or FI falls within the meaning of “shell FI” for the
purposes of paragraph 10 of the Notice, a correspondent bank should note that
physical presence means meaningful mind and management located within a
country. The existence simply of a local agent or low-level employees does not
constitute physical presence.
37

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
11-2
11-3
11-4
11-5
11-6
11-7
11-8
Notice Paragraph 11 — Wire Transfers
Paragraph 11 of the Notice is not intended to cover any transfer that flows from a
transaction carried out using a credit, charge, debit or prepaid card for the
purchase of goods or services, so long as the credit, charge, debit or prepaid
card number accompanies all transfers flowing from the transaction. However,
paragraph 11 of the Notice applies when a credit, charge, debit or prepaid card is
used as a payment system to effect a person-to-person wire transfer, hence the
necessary information should be included in the message for such transactions.
In relation to paragraph 11.7 of the Notice, examples of domestic wire transfers in
Singapore include inter-bank transfers via the local MAS Electronic Payment
System (“MEPS+”) system.
A merchant bank should not omit, delete or alter information in payment
messages, for the purpose of avoiding detection of that information by another Fl
in the payment process.
A merchant bank should monitor payment messages to and from higher risk
countries or jurisdictions, as well as transactions with higher risk countries or
jurisdictions and suspend or reject payment messages or transactions with
sanctioned parties or countries or jurisdictions.
Where name screening checks confirm that the wire transfer originator or wire
transfer beneficiary is a terrorist or terrorist entity, the requirement for the
merchant bank to block, reject or freeze assets of these terrorists or terrorist
entities cannot be risk-based.
Where there are positive hits arising from name screening checks, they should
be escalated to the AML/CFT compliance function. The decision to approve or
reject the receipt or release of the wire transfer should be made at an appropriate
level and documented.
Where a cross-border wire transfer, regardless of amount, is a cover payment
(e.g. MT202COV payments), ordering institutions shall in accordance with the
requirements of paragraph 11 of the Notice, ensure that the payment message of
the cover payment sent to the intermediary institution contain information of the
wire transfer originator and wire transfer beneficiary. The information included in
the payment message of the cover payment shall be identical to that contained in
the cross-border wire transfer message sent directly to the beneficiary institution.
An intermediary institution that receives and transmits a cover payment should
ensure that the relevant fields for storing originator and beneficiary information in
the payment message of the cover payment are duly completed. In addition, such
intermediary institutions shall ensure that the wire transfer originator and wire
transfer beneficiary information in the payment message of the cover payment is
complete, in accordance with paragraph 11.15 of the Notice. The intermediary
institution shall also screen the names of the wire transfer originator and wire
transfer beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 6.41 of the Notice.
38

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
11-9
11-9-1
11-9-2
11-10
11-10-1
Notice Paragraphs 11.3 to 11.9
Responsibility of the Ordering Institution
For joint accounts, the ordering institution shall provide all of the joint account
holders’ information to the beneficiary institution in accordance with paragraph
6.37 of the Notice. If there are space constraints in the SWIFT message, the
ordering institution may indicate in the wire transfer message that the originator
information provided pertains to a joint account holder.
The ordering institution shall include wire transfers in its ongoing monitoring of
the business relations with the customer, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the
Notice.
Notice Paragraphs 11.10 to 11.12
Responsibility of the Beneficiary Institution
Where an incoming wire transfer is not accompanied by complete wire transfer
originator information and wire transfer beneficiary, a beneficiary institution shall
request the information from the ordering institution. A merchant bank should
consider rejecting incoming wire transfers or terminating business relations with
overseas ordering institutions that fail to provide originator information. An STR
should be filed if appropriate. In this regard, a merchant bank should be mindful
of any requirements that may be imposed on the overseas ordering institution,
either by law or as a regulatory measure, in relation to cross-border wire
transfers.
39

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
14
14-1
14-2
14-3
14-4
14-5
14-6
Notice Paragraph 14 — Suspicious Transactions Reporting
A merchant bank should ensure that the internal process for evaluating whether a
matter should be referred to the Suspicious Transaction Reporting Office
(“STRO’) via an STR is completed without delay and should not exceed 15
business days of the case being referred by the relevant merchant bank
employee or officer, unless the circumstances are exceptional or extraordinary.
A merchant bank should note that an STR filed with STRO would also meet the
reporting obligations under the TSOFA.
Examples of suspicious transactions are set out in Appendix B of these
Guidelines. These examples are not intended to be exhaustive and are only
examples of the most basic ways in which money may be laundered or used for
TF purposes. Identification of suspicious transactions should prompt further
enquiries and where necessary, investigations into the source of funds. A
merchant bank should also consider filing an STR if there is any adverse news
on its customers in relation to financial crimes. A transaction or activity may not
be suspicious at the time, but if suspicions are raised later, an obligation to report
then arises.
Once suspicion has been raised in relation to a customer or any transaction for
that customer, in addition to reporting the suspicious activity, a merchant bank
should ensure that appropriate action is taken to adequately mitigate the risk of
the merchant bank being used for ML/TF activities. This may include
strengthening its AML/CFT processes. This may also include a review of either
the risk classification of the customer, or the business relations with the
customer. Appropriate action should be taken, including escalating the issue to
the appropriate decision making level, taking into account any other relevant
factors, such as cooperation with law enforcement agencies.
STR reporting templates are available on CAD’s website’. However, merchant
banks are strongly encouraged to use the online system provided by STRO to
lodge STRs. In the event that the merchant bank is of the view that STRO
should be informed on an urgent basis, particularly where a transaction is Known
to be part of an ongoing investigation by the relevant authorities, the merchant
bank should give initial notification to STRO by telephone or email and follow up
with such other means of reporting as STRO may direct.
A merchant bank should document all transactions that have been brought to the
attention of its AML/CFT compliance function, including transactions that are not
reported to STRO. To ensure that there is proper accountability for decisions
made, the basis for not submitting STRs for any suspicious transactions
escalated by its employees and officers should be properly substantiated and
documented.
7
The website address as at 24 April 2015: http:/Awww.cad.gov.sg/aml-cft/suspicious-transaction-reporting-
office/suspicious-transaction-reporting.
40

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
14-7 Merchant banks are reminded to read paragraph 14.4 of the Notice together with
paragraphs 6.35 and 6.36 of the Notice. Where a merchant bank stops
performing CDD measures as permitted under paragraph 14.4 and is, as a result,
unable to complete CDD measures (as specified under paragraph 6.36), the
merchant bank is reminded that it shall not commence or continue business
relations with that customer or undertake any transaction for that customer.
41

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
15
15-1
15-2
15-2-1
15-2-2
15-3
15-3-1
15-3-2
Notice Paragraph 15 — Internal Policies, Compliance, Audit and Training
As internal policies and procedures serve to guide employees and officers in
ensuring compliance with AML/CFT laws and regulations, it is important that a
merchant bank updates its policies and procedures in a timely manner, to take
into account new operational, legal and regulatory developments and emerging
or new ML/TF risks.
Notice Paragraphs 15.3 to 15.9
Group Policy
For the avoidance of doubt, Singapore merchant bank branches of banks
incorporated outside Singapore need not comply with paragraphs 15.3 to 15.9 of
the Notice. Paragraphs 15.3 to 15.9 of the Notice are intended to be applied by a
merchant bank incorporated in Singapore to its branches and subsidiaries, but
not to its parent entity and the merchant bank’s other related corporations.
In relation to paragraph 15.6 of the Notice, examples of the types of information
that should be shared within the financial group for risk management purposes
are positive name matches arising from screening performed against ML/TF
information sources, a list of customers who have been exited by the merchant
bank, its branches and subsidiaries based on suspicion of ML/TF and names of
parties on whom STRs have been filed. Such information should be shared by a
branch or subsidiary of a merchant bank incorporated in Singapore with the
merchant bank’s group level compliance, audit, and AML/CFT functions (whether
in or outside Singapore), for risk management purposes.
Notice Paragraphs 15.10 to 15.11
Compliance
A merchant bank should ensure that the AML/CFT compliance officer has the
necessary seniority and authority within the merchant bank to effectively perform
his responsibilities.
The responsibilities of the AML/CFT compliance officer should include —
(a) carrying out, or overseeing the carrying out of, ongoing monitoring of
business relations and sample review of accounts for compliance with the
Notice and these Guidelines;
(b) promoting compliance with the Notice and these Guidelines, as well as MAS
Regulations issued under section 27A of the MAS Act, and taking overall
charge of all AML/CFT matters within the organisation:
(c) informing employees and officers promptly of regulatory changes;
42

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
15-3-3
15-4
15-4-1
(d) ensuring a speedy and appropriate reaction to any matter in which ML/TF is
suspected;
(e) reporting, or overseeing the reporting of, suspicious transactions;
(f) advising and training employees and officers on developing and
implementing internal policies, procedures and controls on AML/CFT:
(g) reporting to senior management on the outcome of reviews of the merchant
bank’s compliance with the Notice and these Guidelines, as well as MAS
Regulations issued under section 27A of the MAS Act and risk assessment
procedures; and
(h) reporting regularly on key AML/CFT risk management and control issues
(including information outlined in paragraph 1-4-14 of the Guidelines), and
any necessary remedial actions, arising from audit, inspection, and
compliance reviews, to the merchant bank’s senior management, and in the
case of locally incorporated merchant banks, to the board of directors, at
least annually and as and when needed.
The business interests of a merchant bank should not interfere with the effective
discharge of the above-mentioned responsibilities of the AML/CFT compliance
officer, and potential conflicts of interest should be avoided. To enable unbiased
judgments and facilitate impartial advice to management, the AML/CFT
compliance officer should, for example, be distinct from the internal audit and
business line functions. Where any conflicts between business lines and the
responsibilities of the AML/CFT compliance officer arise, procedures should be in
place to ensure that AML/CFT concerns are objectively considered and
addressed at the appropriate level of the merchant bank’s management.
Notice Paragraph 15.12
Audit
A merchant bank’s AML/CFT framework should be subject to periodic audits
(including sample testing). Such audits should be performed not just on individual
business functions but also on a bank-wide basis. Auditors should assess the
effectiveness of measures taken to prevent ML/TF. This would include, among
others —
(a) determining the adequacy of the merchant bank’s AML/CFT policies,
procedures and controls, ML/TF risk assessment framework and application
of risk-based approach;
(b) reviewing the content and frequency of AML/CFT training programmes, and
the extent of employees’ and officers’ compliance with established AML/CFT
policies and procedures; and
43

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
15-4-2
15-5
15-5-1
15-5-2
15-6
15-6-1
15-6-2
15-6-3
(c) assessing whether instances of non-compliance are reported to senior
management on a timely basis.
The frequency and extent of the audit should be commensurate with the ML/TF
risks presented and the size and complexity of the merchant bank’s business.
Notice Paragraph 15.13
Employee Hiring
The screening procedures applied when a merchant bank in Singapore hires
employees and appoints officers should include —
(a) background checks with past employers;
(b) screening against ML/TF information sources; and
(c) bankruptcy searches.
In addition, a merchant bank should conduct credit history checks, on a risk-
based approach, when hiring employees and appointing officers.
Notice Paragraph 15.14
Training
As stated in paragraph 15.14 of the Notice, it is a merchant bank’s responsibility
to provide adequate training for its employees and officers so that they are
adequately trained to implement its AML/CFT policies and procedures. The
scope and frequency of training should be tailored to the specific risks faced by
the merchant bank and pitched according to the job functions, responsibilities
and experience of the employees and officers. New employees and officers
should be required to attend training as soon as possible after being hired or
appointed.
Apart from the initial training, a merchant bank should also provide refresher
training at least once every two years, or more regularly as appropriate, to ensure
that employees and officers are reminded of their responsibilities and are kept
informed of new developments related to ML/TF. A merchant bank should
maintain the training records for audit purposes.
A merchant bank should monitor the effectiveness of the training provided to its
employees. This may be achieved by —
(a) testing employees’ understanding of the merchant bank’s policies and
procedures to combat ML/TF, their obligations under relevant laws and
regulations, and their ability to recognise suspicious transactions;
44

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
(b) monitoring employees’ compliance with the merchant bank’s AML/CFT
policies, procedures and controls as well as the quality and quantity of
internal reports so that further training needs may be identified and
appropriate action taken; and
(c) monitoring attendance and following up with employees who miss such
training without reasonable cause.
Endnotes on History of Amendments
—_— . Guidelines to MAS Notice 1014 dated 2 July 2007.
2. Guidelines to MAS Notice 1014 dated 2 July 2007 cancelled with effect from 24 May
2015.
3. Guidelines to MAS Notice 1014 dated 24 April 2015 with effect from 24 May 2015.
(a) Amended on 30 November 2015.
45

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
I-1-2
I-1-3
|-2-1
|-2-2
Other Key Topics - Guidance to Merchant Banks on Proliferation Financing
Overview
MAS issues Regulations under section 27A of the MAS Act in order to discharge
or facilitate the discharge of any obligation binding on Singapore by virtue of a
United Nations Security Council Resolution (‘UNSCR’)®. These Regulations
apply to all Fls (including merchant banks) regulated by MAS and generally
impose financial sanctions on designated persons.
Specifically, a UNSCR may designate certain individuals and entities involved in
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and its financing. The relevant
information and full listings of persons designated by UNSCRs can be found on
the UN website’.
MAS has given effect to UNSCRs as listed by the FATF Recommendations
(2012) to be relevant to combating proliferation financing, by issuing Regulations.
Examples of such Regulations are the MAS (Sanctions and Freezing of Assets of
Persons — lran) Regulations 2007, MAS (Freezing of Assets of Persons —
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea) Regulations 2009 and MAS (Sanctions
— Democratic People’s Republic of Korea) Regulations 2009.
A merchant bank should rely on its CDD measures (including screening
measures) under the Notice to detect and prevent proliferation financing activities
and transactions.
A merchant bank should also ensure compliance with legal instruments issued by
MAS relating to proliferation financing risks. An example is the MAS Notice on
Prohibition on Transactions with the Iranian Government and with Iranian
Financial Institutions.
CDD and Internal Controls
It is important to ensure that name screening by a merchant bank, as required
under the Notice, is performed against the latest UN listings as they are updated
from time to time. A merchant bank should have in place policies, procedures
and controls to continuously monitor the listings and take necessary follow-up
action within a reasonable period of time, as required under the applicable laws
and regulations.
A merchant bank should also have policies and procedures to detect attempts by
its employees or officers to circumvent the applicable laws and regulations
(including MAS Regulations) such as —
° Please refer to the MAS website for a full listing of Regulations issued by MAS pursuant to the United Nations Security
Council Resolutions.
° Please see: htto:/Avww.un.org/sc/committees/1718 and http:/Avww.un.org/sc/committees/1 737.
46

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
I-2-3
|-3
|-3-1
I-4-1
(a) omitting, deleting or altering information in payment messages for the
purpose of avoiding detection of that information by the merchant bank itself
or other banks involved in the payment process; and
(b) structuring transactions with the purpose of concealing the involvement of
designated persons.
A merchant bank should have policies and procedures to prevent such attempts,
and take appropriate measures against such employees and officers.
Obligation of Merchant Bank to Freeze without Delay
A merchant bank is reminded of its obligations under the MAS Regulations
issued under section 27A of the MAS Act"® to immediately freeze any funds,
financial assets or economic resources owned or controlled, directly or indirectly,
by designated persons that the merchant bank has in its possession, custody or
control. The merchant bank should also file an STR in such cases.
Potential Indicators of Proliferation Financing
A merchant bank should develop indicators that would alert it to customers and
transactions (actual or proposed) that are possibly associated with proliferation
financing-related activities, including indicators such as whether —
(a) the customer is vague and resistant to providing additional information when
asked:
(b) the customer's activity does not match its business profile or the end-user
information does not match the end-user’s business profile;
(c) the transaction involves designated persons;
(d) the transaction involves higher risk countries orjurisdictions which are known
to be involved in proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or proliferation
financing activities;
(e) the transaction involves other Fls with known deficiencies in AML/CFT
controls or controls for combating proliferation financing;
(f) the transaction involves possible shell companies (e.g. companies that do
not have a high level of capitalisation or display other shell company
indicators);
'° Blease refer to the following link for the relevant MAS ML/TF Regulations - http://www.mas.gov.sq/Requlations-and-
Financial-Stability/Anti-Money-Laundering-C ountering-The-Financing-Of-Terrorism-And-Targeted-Financial-
Sanctions/Targeted-Financial-Sanctions/MAS-Regulations.aspx
47

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
1-5
|-5-1
(g) the transaction involves containers whose numbers have been changed or
ships that have been renamed;
(h) the shipment of goods takes a circuitous route or the financial transaction is
(i)
(J)
(k)
structured in a circuitous manner;
the transaction involves the shipment of goods inconsistent with normal
geographic trade patterns (e.g. the country involved would not normally
export or import such goods);
the transaction involves the shipment of goods incompatible with the
technical level of the country to which goods are being shipped (e.g.
semiconductor manufacturing equipment shipped to a country with no
electronics industry); or
there are inconsistencies in the information provided in trade documents and
financial flows (e.g. in the names, companies, addresses, ports of call and
final destination).
Other Sources of Guidance on Proliferation Financing
The FATF has also provided guidance on measures to combat proliferation
financing and a merchant bank may wish to refer to the FATF website for
additional information.
48

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
I Useful Links
Financial Action Task Force (“FATF’): http:/Avww. fatf-gafi.org/
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision - BIS: http:/Awww.bis.org/bcbs/
49

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
APPENDIX A — Examples of CDD Information for Customers (Including Legal
Persons/Arrangements)
Customer Type Examples of CDD Information
Sole proprietorships Full registered business name
Business address or principal place of business
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
the business relations with the merchant bank
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
sole proprietor (where applicable)
Name of the sole proprietor
Information about the source of funds
A report of the merchant bank’s visit to the
customer’s place of business, where the merchant
bank assesses it as necessary
Structure of the sole proprietors business (where
applicable)
Records in an independent company registry or
evidence of business registration
Partnerships and
unincorporated bodies
Full name of entity
Business address or principal place of business
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
the business relations with the merchant bank
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
Names of all connected parties
Names of all beneficial owners
Information about the source of funds
A report of the merchant bank’s visit to the
customer's place of business, where the merchant
bank assesses it as necessary
Ownership and control structure
Records in an independent company registry
Partnership deed
The customers membership with a_ relevant
professional body
Any association the entity may have with other
countries or jurisdictions (e.g. the location of the
entity's headquarters, operating facilities, branches,
subsidiaries)
Companies Full name of entity
Business address or principal place of business
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
the business relations with the merchant bank
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
50

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
Customer Type Examples of CDD Information
entity
e Names of all connected parties
Names of all beneficial owners
Information about the source of funds
A report of the merchant bank’s visit to the
customer’s place of business, where the merchant
bank assesses it as necessary
Ownership and control structure
Records in an independent company registry
Certificate of incumbency, certificate of good
standing, share register, as appropriate
Memorandum and Articles of Association
Certificate of Incorporation
Board resolution authorising the opening of the
customer's account with the merchant bank
Any association the entity may have with other
countries or jurisdictions (e.g. the location of the
entity's headquarters, operating facilities, branches,
subsidiaries)
Public sector bodies, Full name of entity
government, state- Nature of entity (e.g. overseas government, treaty
owned companies organisation)
and supranationals Business address or principal place of business
(other than sovereign | ¢ Information about the purpose and intended nature of
wealth funds) the business relations with the merchant bank
Name of the home state authority and nature of its
relationship with its home state authority
Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
Names of all connected parties
Information about the source of funds
Ownership and control structure
e A report of the merchant bank’s visit to the
customer's place of business, where the merchant
bank assesses it as necessary
e Board resolution authorising the opening of the
customer's account with the merchant bank
Clubs, Societies and |e Full name of entity
Charities Business address or principal place of business
Information about the purpose and intended nature of
business relations with the merchant bank
Information about the nature of the entity’s activities
and objectives
Names of all trustees (or equivalent)
51

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
Customer Type Examples of CDD Information
e Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
Names of all connected parties
Names of all beneficial owners
Information about the source of funds
A report of the merchant bank’s visit to the
customer's place of business, where the merchant
bank assesses it as necessary
Ownership and control structure
Constitutional document
Certificate of registration
Committee/Board resolution authorising the opening
of the customer’s account with the merchant bank
e Records in a relevant and independent registry in the
country of establishment
Trust and Other | e Full name of entity
Similar Arrangements | e Business address or principal place of business
(e.g. Foundations, | e Information about the nature, purpose and objectives
Fiducie, Treuhand | of the entity (e.g. discretionary, testamentary)
and Fideicomiso) e Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the
entity
e Names of all connected parties
e Names of all beneficial owners
e Information about the source of funds
e A report of the merchant bank’s visit to the
customer’s place of business, where the merchant
bank assesses it as necessary
e Information about the purpose and intended nature of
business relations with the merchant bank
e Records in a relevant and independent registry in the
country or jurisdiction of constitution
e Country orjurisdiction of constitution
e Trust deed
e Names of the settlors/trustees/beneficiaries or any
person who has power over the disposition of any
property that is subject to the trust
e Declaration of trusts
e Deed of retirement and appointment of trustees
(where applicable)
52

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
APPENDIX B — Examples of Suspicious Transactions
B-1
B-1-1
B-1-2
B-1-3
B-1-4
B-2
General Comments
The list of situations given below is intended to highlight some basic ways in
which money may be laundered or used for TF purposes. While each individual
situation may not be sufficient to suggest that ML/TF is taking place, a
combination of such situations may be indicative of a suspicious transaction. The
list is intended solely as an aid, and must not be applied as a routine instrument
in place of common sense.
The list is not exhaustive and may be updated due to changing circumstances
and new methods of laundering money or financing terrorism. Merchant banks
are to refer to STRO’s website for the latest list of red flags"’.
A customer's declarations regarding the background of such transactions should
be checked for plausibility. Not every explanation offered by the customer can be
accepted without scrutiny.
It is reasonable to suspect any customer who is reluctant to provide normal
information and documents required routinely by the merchant bank in the course
of the business relations. Merchant banks should pay attention to customers who
provide minimal, false or misleading information, or when applying to open an
account, provide information that is difficult or expensive for the merchant bank to
verify.
Transactions Which Do Not Make Economic Sense
I) Transactions that cannot be reconciled with the usual activities of the
customer, for example —
(a) the use of Letters of Credit and other methods of trade finance to
move money between countries or jurisdictions where such trade is
not consistent with the customer's usual business;
(6b) payment by unrelated third parties into a customer’s credit card or
charge card accounts via cash, cheques or debit cards;
(C) payment into a customer’s credit card or charge card accounts
received from different locations or accounts.
il) A customer relationship with the merchant bank where a customer has a
large number of accounts with the same merchant bank, and has frequent
transfers between different accounts.
" The website address as at 24 April 2015: http:/Avww.cad.gov.sq/aml-cft/suspicious-transaction-reporting-
office/suspicious-transaction-reporting
53

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
B-3
ii)
vi)
vii)
viii)
Xi)
Transactions in which assets are withdrawn immediately after being
deposited, unless the customer’s business activities furnish a plausible
reason for immediate withdrawal.
Transactions which, without plausible reason, result in the intensive use of
what was previously a relatively inactive account, such as a customer's
account which shows virtually no normal personal or business related
activities but is used to receive or disburse unusually large sums which
have no obvious purpose or relationship to the customer or his business.
Large amounts of funds deposited into an account, which is inconsistent
with the salary of the customer.
Provision of bank guarantees or indemnities as collateral for loans
between third parties that are not in conformity with market conditions.
Unexpected repayment of an overdue credit without any plausible
explanation.
Unexpected repayment of credit facilities by a third party on behalf of the
customer.
Back-to-back loans without any identifiable and legally admissible
purpose.
Cash deposited at one location is withdrawn at another location almost
immediately.
Customers running large positive credit card or charge card balances.
Transactions Involving Large Amounts of Cash
I Frequent withdrawal of large cash amounts that do not appear to be
justified by the customer’s business activity.
Frequent withdrawal of large amounts by means of cheques, including
traveller's cheques.
Customers making large and frequent cash deposits but cheques drawn
on the accounts are mostly to individuals and firms not normally
associated with their business.
Large cash withdrawals from a previously dormant/inactive account, or
from an account which has just received an unexpected large credit from
abroad.
A large amount of cash is withdrawn and immediately deposited into
another account.
54

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
vi)
vii)
viii)
Xi)
xii)
xiii)
Xiv)
XV)
Xvi)
XVii)
Exchanging an unusually large amount of small-denominated notes for
those of higher denomination.
Purchasing or selling of foreign currencies in substantial amounts by cash
settlement despite the customer having an account with the merchant
bank.
Company transactions, both deposits and withdrawals, that are
denominated by unusually large amounts of cash, rather than by way of
debits and credits normally associated with the normal commercial
operations of the company (e.g. cheques, letters of credit, bills of
exchange).
Depositing cash by means of numerous credit slips by a customer such
that the amount of each deposit is not substantial, but the cumulative total
of which is substantial.
The deposit of unusually large amounts of cash by a customer to cover
requests for bankers’ drafts, money transfers or other negotiable and
readily marketable money instruments.
Large cash deposits using night safe facilities and cash deposit machines,
thereby avoiding direct contact with the merchant bank.
Customers who together, and simultaneously, use separate tellers to
conduct large cash transactions or foreign exchange transactions.
Customers whose deposits contain counterfeit notes or forged
instruments.
Customers who use cash advances from a credit card or charge card
account to purchase money orders or bank drafts to transfer funds to
foreign destinations.
Customers who take cash advances from a credit card or charge card
account to deposit into another account.
Large cash payments for outstanding credit card or charge card balances.
Customers who maintain positive balances on their credit card or charge
card and then request cash advances or other type of refunds.
Transactions Involving Accounts of the Customer with the Merchant Bank
I) High velocity of funds through an account, i.e. low beginning and ending
daily balances, which do not reflect the large volume of funds flowing
through an account.
55

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
B-5
vi)
vii)
viii)
IX)
Substantial increases in deposits of cash or negotiable instruments by a
professional firm or company, using customer accounts or in-house
company or trust accounts, especially if the deposits are promptly
transferred between other customer company and trust accounts.
Matching of payments out with credits paid in by cash on the same or
previous day.
Transfers of funds from a company’s account to an individual account of
an employee or persons related to the employee and vice-versa.
Transfers of funds from various third parties into an account, which is
inconsistent with the nature of the customer's business.
Multiple depositors using a single account.
Paying in large third party cheques endorsed in favour of the customer.
Frequent deposits of a company’s cheques into an employee’s account.
An account operated in the name of an offshore company with structured
movement of funds.
Transactions Involving Transfers Abroad
I
ii)
A customer who appears to have accounts with several banks in the same
locality, especially when the merchant bank is aware of a regular
consolidated process from such accounts prior to a request for onward
transmission of the funds elsewhere.
Large and regular payments that cannot be clearly identified as bona fide
transactions, from and to countries or jurisdictions associated with (a) the
production, processing or marketing of narcotics or other illegal drugs or
(b) other criminal conduct.
Transfer of a large amount of money abroad by a person who does not
maintain an account with the merchant bank and who fails to provide a
legitimate reason when asked.
Substantial increase in cash deposits by a customer without apparent
cause, especially if such deposits are subsequently transferred within a
short period out of the account or to a destination not normally associated
with the customer.
Repeated transfers of large amounts of money abroad accompanied by
the instruction to pay the beneficiary in cash.
56

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
B-6
B-7
vi)
vii)
viii)
Building up large balances, not consistent with the known turnover of the
customers business, and subsequent transfer to account(s) held
overseas.
Cash payments remitted to a single account by a large number of different
persons without an adequate explanation.
“U-turn” transactions, i.e. where funds received from a person or company
in a foreign country or jurisdiction are immediately remitted to another
person or company in the same country or foreign jurisdiction, or to the
sender's account in another country or jurisdiction.
Investment-Related Transactions
I Purchasing of securities to be held by the merchant bank in safe custody,
where this does not appear appropriate given the customer's apparent
standing.
Requests by a customer for investment management services where the
source of funds is unclear or not consistent with the customer’s apparent
standing.
Larger or unusual settlements of securities transactions in cash form.
Buying and selling of a security with no discernible purpose or in
circumstances which appear unusual.
Large transfers of securities to non-related accounts.
Merchants Acquired by a Merchant Bank for Credit Card or Charge Card
Transactions
! Principals of the merchant appear to be unfamiliar with, or lack a clear
understanding of, the merchant’s business.
Proposed transaction volume, refunds or charge-backs are inconsistent
with information obtained from on-site visit or merchant/industry peer
group.
Unusual or excessive cash advances or credit refunds.
Indications that a merchant's credit card or charge card terminal is being
used by any third party.
57

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
B-8
B-9
Transactions Involving Unidentified Parties
vi)
Transfer of money to another bank without indication of the beneficiary.
Payment orders with inaccurate information concerning the person placing
the orders.
Use of pseudonyms or numbered accounts for effecting commercial
transactions by enterprises active in trade and industry.
Holding in trust of shares in an unlisted company whose activities cannot
be ascertained by the merchant bank.
Provision of collateral by way of pledge or guarantee without any
discernible plausible reason by third parties unknown to the merchant
bank and who have no identifiable close relationship with the customer.
Customers who wish to maintain a number of trustee or customers’
accounts that do not appear consistent with their type of business,
including transactions that involve nominee names.
Tax Crimes Related Transactions
i
vi)
vii)
viii)
Negative tax-related reports from the media or other credible information
sources.
Unconvincing or unclear purpose or motivation for having accounts
opened in Singapore.
Originating sources of multiple or significant deposits/withdrawals are not
consistent with the declared purpose of the account.
Inability to reasonably justify frequent and large wire transfers from or to a
country or jurisdiction that presents higher risk of tax evasion.
Re-deposit or reinvestment of funds back into the original country or
jurisdiction after being transferred to another country or jurisdiction, often a
tax haven with poor track record on CDD or record keeping requirements.
Accounts managed by external asset managers who may not be
adequately regulated and supervised.
Purchase or sale of large amounts of precious metals by a customer which
is not in line with his business or background.
Purchase of bank cheques on a large scale by a customer.
58

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
B-10
Ix) Extensive or increased use of safe deposit facilities that do not appear to
be justified by the background of the customer and for no apparent
reason.
Trade-based Related Transactions
y
vi)
vii)
viii)
Ix)
x)
Xi)
xii)
xiii)
The commodity is shipped to (or from) a country orjurisdiction designated
as “higher risk” for ML/TF activities.
The type of commodity shipped is designated as “higher risk” for ML/TF
activities"*.
Significant discrepancies appear between the description of the
commodity on the bill of lading and the invoice.
Significant discrepancies appear between the description of the goods on
the bill of lading (or invoice) and the actual goods shipped.
Significant discrepancies appear between the value of the commodity
reported on the invoice and the commodity’s fair market value.
The size of the shipment appears inconsistent with the scale of the
exporter or importer’s regular business activities.
The type of commodity shipped appears inconsistent with the exporter or
importer’s regular business activities.
The method of payment appears inconsistent with the risk characteristics
of the transaction’.
The transaction involves the receipt of cash (or other payments) from third
party entities that have no apparent connection with the transaction.
The transaction involves the use of repeatedly amended or frequently
extended letters of credit.
The transaction involves the use of front (or shell) companies.
The commodity is transhipped through one or more countries or
jurisdictions for no apparent economic reason.
The shipment does not make economic sense“.
? For example, high-value, low-volume goods (e.g. consumer electronics), which have high turnover rates and present
valuation difficulties.
'S For example, the use of an advance payment for a shipment from a new supplier in a high-risk country.
"* For example, the use of a forty-foot container to transport a small amount of relatively low-value goods.
59

GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 1014 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING
AND COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM
B-11 Other Types of Transactions
I)
vi)
vii)
viii)
Xi)
Account activity is not commensurate with the customer’s known profile
(e.g. age, occupation, income).
The customer fails to reasonably justify the purpose of a transaction when
queried by the merchant bank.
Transactions with countries or entities that are reported to be associated
with terrorism activities or with persons that have been designated as
terrorists.
Frequent changes to the address or authorised signatories.
A large amount of funds is received and immediately used as collateral for
banking facilities.
When a young person (aged about 17-26) opens an account and either
withdraws or transfers the funds within a short period, which could be an
indication of terrorism financing.
When a person receives funds from a religious or charitable organisation
and utilises the funds for purchase of assets or transfers out the funds
within a relatively short period.
Customers requesting for a credit card or charge card to be sent to an
international or domestic destination other than the customer's address or
place of business.
Indications of a credit card or charge card merchant refunding payments to
any person without an underlying purchase of goods or services.
The customer uses intermediaries which are not subject to adequate
AMLI/CFT laws.
Transactions that are suspected to be in violation of another country’s or
jurisdiction’s foreign exchange laws and regulations.
60

