Monetary Authority of Singapore
GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS
INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING
AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND
CONTROLS
January 2019

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
Table of Contents
ys Ces ele)(els (0) | eee 3
2 —-_ GOVETMNANCE 0... cceceeeeeessaceeeessaeeeesesaceceeesaaeesessaaeeesesaaeceeseaaeeceseaeeeesesaaeceeeeaaeeceseaeeeeeseeaeeeeses 5
Key Findings and Recommendations. .........ceecceseccsssceseccesececesceeesecesaeesaeceeseeceeeeseecessesesesesaeessesesaeeees 5
3B -—- RISK AWaQrene 000.0... eee eccecsecesceessceesseceseeesseeesaceceacessaecesseceaecesaecceeeseaecessesesesessecesesesasessaeessass 13
Key Findings and Recommendations. ........ccecccesscessceesccesseecsecesscecescesesecesaecsseeeeaeeceseeseeeeesaeessesesaees 13
a 6. (<1 04) 6 (0) | ceceerr 17
Key Findings and Recommendations. .......ccecccecscssseseseceeseeeeecesscecesceseaecesaecsseseaeeeseeesseeesseesesesesaees 17
5 Summary of Supervisory Expectations ......0..... ccc ccccccccsscecscesseececeseecesaeeeseeesseesseeesseesseees 24
GOVEINANCE ooo eeeeecsnnceceeeessnnaceceeeeeeseeeaeeeeeeeseeaaeeeeeeesseeaeeeeeeeeeeseaeaeeeeeseseaeaeeeeecesuesaeeseeeesneaaaeeeeceseesgaas 24
RiSk AWALENESS .0....eeeecesscesssccesssceeseacecescecesceceseeceaeecesaeecesseecssaeecesaeecssueecesseeessaeeessseeessseeessaeeesaaeessas 24
EXCCUUION Lu. eee eeessneceeceeesssnaeceeceseeseaeeeeeeeeeseseeeeeeeeeseeeaeeeeeeeseesaaeeeeeeeeesaaeseeseeeesuasaeeseeeesesaaeeseeeeeeeegaas 25
Co OC0) 000) LL) (0) | eee 26

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
1 Introduction
1.1 Globally, money laundering and terrorism financing (“ML/TF”) schemes and typologies are
becoming increasingly sophisticated. As a trusted financial centre, Singapore is constantly vigilant to
these evolving ML/TF risks. The Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”) requires financial
institutions (“Fis”), including capital markets intermediaries (“CMIs”)*, to have adequate anti-money
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism (“AML/CFT”) controls. As important participants
in the financial system, CMIs have pertinent roles to play in detecting, disrupting and deterring
attempts to abuse the financial system for illicit purposes. It is against this backdrop that MAS recently
conducted a series of AML/CFT inspections on CMs.
1.2 MAS applies a three-pillar framework comprising Governance, Risk Awareness and Execution
in our AML/CFT inspections.
(a) Governance: The Board and Senior Management (BSM) plays an important role to
maintain sound governance frameworks for active management of ML/TF risks. Setting a
firm tone from the top with adequate oversight for effective AML/CFT controls should be
a priority.
(b) Risk Awareness: Strong risk awareness across the FI is needed to enhance the assessment
of the nature and level of ML/TF risks faced by the firm, and strengthen the Fl’s ability to
properly identify and escalate risk issues as well as determine appropriate risk mitigation
measures.
(c) Execution: Effective execution of controls within the organisation is necessary to achieve
desired outcomes of detecting, preventing and deterring ML/TF risks.
1.3 The key aspects of the three-pillar framework are illustrated in the diagram below.
Governance
Right tone from the top that
emphasises AML/CFT as
organisational priority
Active oversight of AML/CFT
framework, risk management
and tailored training initiatives
Clear lines of responsibility
Active involvementin the
deliberation and resolution of
AML/CFT issues
Risk Awareness
Sound understanding of key
ML/TF risks
Appropriately handle and
mitigate risks arising from
basic and complex AML/CFT
issues
Clear understanding of
individual ownership and
accountabilityfor managing
ML/TF risks
Execution
Proper implementation of
policies, procedures and
controls that comply with
Notice requirements
Effective risk assessment and
mitigation measures
Timely escalation and
resolution of red flags
Timely and effective
resolution of past issues
Diagram 1: Key aspects of three pillars of effectiveness
1 For avoidance of doubt, the term “capital markets intermediaries” used in this guidance paper includes
capital markets services licensees and licensed trust companies.

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
1.4 This guidance paper does not impose any additional legal requirements on Fis, but seeks to
clarify MAS’ supervisory expectations of existing AML/CFT requirements through the sharing of key
observations on aspects of the three pillars from our recent CMI inspections. CMIs should study and
leverage this guidance paper to identify and address effectiveness gaps so as to enhance their
AML/CFT frameworks and controls in a risk-appropriate manner. For better illustration of our findings,
we have included case studies taken from MAS’ inspections.
1.5 While this paper is premised on the inspections of CMls, the takeaways are applicable and
relevant to other types of Fls, with the appropriate calibrations, and they should therefore incorporate
learning points from this guidance paper. Fls should also note that the findings and case examples
highlighted in this paper are non-exhaustive, and Fls should continue to implement appropriate
AML/CFT controls that are commensurate with the nature and complexity of the Fl’s business.

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
2 Governance
2.1 The Board and Senior Management (BSM) is ultimately responsible for instilling strong ML/TF
risk awareness, fostering a sound risk management culture, and ensuring the effectiveness of
AML/CFT controls. In this regard, members of the BSM are accountable for deficiencies in the CMI’s
AML/CFT controls.
2.2 The BSM should be cognisant of the ML/TF risks that the CMI is exposed to, and exercise active
oversight of the development and implementation of a robust AML/CFT risk management framework
that effectively mitigates those risks. The BSM should ensure, inter alia, that:
e AML/CFT policies and procedures, that are up-to-date with regulatory requirements and
calibrated to address ML/TF risks arising from the nature and complexity of the CMI’s
business, are implemented;
e The three lines of defence? are suitably qualified and adequately resourced, and assigned clear
AML/CFT responsibilities that are reinforced through AML/CFT performance indicators; and
e Reporting and escalation mechanisms are implemented to ensure that BSM is promptly
updated on key ML/TF risks and concerns.
Key Findings and Recommendations
i. Insufficient appreciation ofAML/CFT by BSM
2.3 The Authority is concerned that the BSM of certain CMIs did not appreciate the extent of the
organisations’ ML/TF risks, and therefore did not devote sufficient attention to AML/CFT matters. In
a few instances, BSM had prioritised business considerations over ML/TF risk mitigation, and exhibited
a dismissive attitude in dealing with ML/TF concerns that were escalated by staff. Such behaviours by
BSM are unacceptable.
Box Story: Inappropriate tone from the top
Case Study A
The compliance staff in CMI A highlighted ML/TF red flags regarding the onboarding of a number
of customers. Despite the concerns raised, CMI A’s senior management failed to address the
attendant ML/TF risks and instead directed staff to complete the onboarding processes to meet
the deadline stipulated by the customers.
* The first line of defence refers to the CMI’s business units (e.g. front office, customer-facing functions) in
charge of identifying, assessing and controlling the ML/TF risks of their business; second line of defence refers
to the CMI’s AML/CFT compliance function, as well as other support functions such as operations, human
resource or technology, which work together with the AML/CFT compliance function to identify ML/TF risks
when they process transactions or applications or deploy systems or technology; third line of defence refers to
the CMI’s internal audit function.

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
Learning point: Where there are reasonable grounds to suspect the legitimacy of the customer’s
monies, CMIs should not onboard the customer and should file STRs. BSM needs to send a clear
message that adequate ML/TF risk mitigation is critical to safeguarding the interests of the firm
and should not be unduly compromised by commercial considerations.
Case Study B
CMI B (a licensed trust company) onboarded a customer who was rated higher risk. However, CMI
B did not have access to nor the authority to operate the bank accounts of the customer’s
underlying investment companies, even though this access/authority was required by the CMI’s
own policy. As such, the CMI was unable to, over a prolonged period of more than 7 years, obtain
the bank statements to conduct transaction monitoring. The CMI’s staff escalated this lapse to the
BSM, highlighting that the customer was rated higher risk. The staff’s concerns were dismissed
with no follow-up actions taken by CMI B.
Learning point: Where there are impediments to proper execution of AML/CFT controls, BSM needs
to instruct staff to address those impediments, and closely monitor the progress. CMIs also need
to assess and implement appropriate risk mitigation measures, which may include discontinuing
the business relationship with the affected customer.
2.4 Given the inherent ML/TF risks in CMls’ businesses, the BSM should put in place a robust
AML/CFT risk management framework as an organisational priority, and emphasise the importance of
detecting, disrupting and deterring ML/TF attempts. BSM needs to ensure that the ML/TF risks arising
from a CMI’s business are properly assessed and mitigated in line with the organisational risk appetite.
BSM should also take steps to foster strong AML/CFT practices and behaviours that permeate the firm.
These steps may include, for instance, factoring effectiveness of AML/CFT compliance in staff
performance appraisal at all levels and taking stern action against individuals who perpetuate
improper AML/CFT conduct.
ii. Failure by BSM to ensure the adequacy ofAML/CFT frameworks, processes and controls
2.5 To aid in the fulfilment of its AML/CFT responsibilities, BSM should put in place robust risk
assessment frameworks and implement effective processes to control risks. In this regard, MAS
observed that CMls’ proficiency in enterprise-wide risk assessment (“EwRA”) need to be enhanced. A
properly conducted EwRA? is imperative for the CMI to understand its vulnerabilities to ML/TF risks,
and forms the basis for the development of relevant AML/CFT processes and controls in order to
adequately address the ML/TF risks it faces. BSM’s oversight of the implementation of AML/CFT
controls also require improvement in many cases.
3 The scale and scope of the CMI’s EwRA should be proportionate to the nature and complexity of the CMI’s
business and encompass the broad ML/TF risk factors of (i) customers, (ii) countries, and (iii) products, services,
transactions and delivery channels. For further guidance on the sub-considerations under each factor, please
refer to the various Guidelines to the MAS AML/CFT Notices.

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
a. Room for improvement in EwRA
Design of EwRA framework
2.6 A CMI is required to identify, assess and understand its ML/TF risks in relation to:
(a) its customers;
(b) the countries or jurisdictions its customers are from/in;
(c) the countries orjurisdictions the CMI has operations in; and
(d) the products, services, transactions and delivery channels of the CMI.
2.7 MAS observed instances where CMls’ EwRA failed to sufficiently take into account the
aforementioned risk factors. There were also CMIs that adopted the use of EwRA templates provided
by external parties, without assessing the applicability or relevance of the risk factors/sub-risk factors
to their business models and context. Consequently, the CMls failed to properly evaluate their ML/TF
risks.
2.8 MAS also noted inadequacies in the way CMIs have assessed the ML/TF risks arising from
countries or jurisdictions that their customers are from/in. A few CMs relied solely on the Financial
Action Task Force’s (“FATF”) Public Statement and Improving Global AML/CFT Compliance lists,
without factoring in other considerations such as corruption and tax evasion risk concerns. There was
also a lack of proper guidance for staff conducting risk assessments. In many cases, the assessment
was left up to staff’s interpretation of what constitutes higher country risk. To illustrate, one of the
CMIs used a webpage that showed the different tax rates of various jurisdictions in the world as the
CMI’s country risk list, but did not provide clarity to staff on how the tax rates should be used to
determine if a customer from any specific country on that list poses higher tax risk.
2.9 Internal inconsistencies were also noted in the way CMls have operationalised their EwRA
frameworks. For example, a CMI did not align its EwRA template to its AML/CFT policy. Although its
AML/CFT policy stipulates that all PEPs should be rated as ‘High’ risk, the CMI’s EwRA did not associate
foreign PEPs as presenting higher ML/TF risks.
Box Story: Poor design of EwWRA frameworks
Case Study C
In assessing the ML/TFE risks arising from the countries/jurisdictions that its customers are from/in
(“country risk assessment”), CMI C considered only FATF-listed jurisdictions that had serious
deficiencies in their AML/CFT systems (“FATF list”) as posing higher ML/TF risk. This was despite
its EwRA policy indicating that other factors including “higher levels of corruption” or “organised
crime” are required to be taken into account in arriving at the overall country risk score. As a result,
all of CMI C’s customers were considered to have low country risk, even though it had customers
from countries where there are high levels of corruption or organised crime, which were not
included in the FATF list.
CMI C also omitted to consider how the following could impact its ML/TF risks:

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
e Products, services, and distribution channels, which are dependent on factors such as
complexity and range of product complexity, extent of direct dealing with customers,
reliance on third parties etc; and
e Volume and size of transactions and fund transfers.
Learning point: CMIs need to take into consideration factors that contribute to country risks, such
as those arising from corruption levels and tax regimes, in addition to referring to the FATF list of
jurisdictions with serious AML/CFT deficiencies. CMIs also need to ensure that they do not omit
assessments of ML/TF risks arising from their customers, products, geographies, transactions,
services and delivery channels.
Case Study D
CMI D1 had customers that were foreign PEPs, but its EwRA did not take into consideration the
corresponding (higher) risk score for customer risk. CMI D1’s explanation was that the foreign PEPs
it served were not political office holders, and hence did not pose heightened ML/TF risk to the
firm. This is inconsistent with the MAS AML/CFT Notice, as well as the CMI’s own policies and
procedures, which consider all foreign PEPs as higher risk. This points to the CMI’s lack of
understanding about the ML/TF risks posed by such customers.
In CMI D2’s assessment of the ML/TF risks posed by its service and delivery channels, CMI D2
represented that the ML/TF risks are low when it used non-face-to-face (“NF2F”) means to
establish business relations with the customers; and further allowed third party payments to
parties unrelated to its customers.
CMI D2’s assessment that they pose low ML/TF risks contradicts with (i) Paragraph 8-2(c) of the
Guidelines to MAS Notice TCA-NO3’, which highlights that trust companies allowing payments to
and from third parties, and in particular to unidentified and/or un-associated third parties, would
heighten exposure to ML/TF risks from such transactions as the sources of funds are unknown and
could potentially stem from illicit activities; and (ii) Paragraph 6-10-3 of the Guidelines°, which
states that trust companies, when establishing NF2F business relations, should impose additional
checks and controls (including enhanced CDD measures), to mitigate potential impersonation
risks.
Learning point: CMIs need to analyse and get a proper understanding of the risk factors that they
have included in their EwRA methodologies, and ensure that the calibration of the risk scores are
aligned with the degree of ML/TF risks.
Frequency of EwRA
2.10 Inspite of the EwRA requirement having been implemented since April 2015, a few CMls did
not conduct any EwRA until they were inspected by MAS. A number of CMIs conducted their EwRA in
4 The equivalent paragraph in the Guidelines to MAS Notice SFAO4-NO2 is paragraph 8-2(c).
> The equivalent paragraph in the Guidelines to MAS Notice SFAO4-NO2 is paragraph 6-11-3.

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
2015, but failed to update their assessment on a regular basis i.e. at least once every two years or
when material trigger events occur, whichever is earlier.
b. Inadequate BSM oversight of effectiveness ofAML/CFT controls
2.11 Having frameworks and processes in place is necessary but not sufficient on its own. There
must be adequate BSM oversight that AML/CFT controls are effectively implemented. MAS has
observed instances where BSM failed to monitor whether the CMlIs’ AML/CFT controls were
functioning effectively. In a few of those cases, there were systemic breakdowns of AML/CFT controls
over a sustained period. This underscores the importance of implementing effective reporting and
escalation mechanisms that would enable BSM to be promptly apprised of AML/CFT issues. At the
same time, the BSM has to devote sufficient management bandwidth to oversee the implementation
of AML/CFT systems and controls, including the adequacy of training and progress of remediation
efforts. Where there are implementation issues, BSM is expected to make timely interventions to
address those issues, and to ensure the continuing effectiveness of the CMI’s AML/CFT frameworks
and controls.
Box Story: Lack of active BSM oversight over effectiveness of AML/CFT processes and controls
Case Study E
The BSM of CMI E1 and CMI E2 were aware of the large number of overdue periodic reviews (a
majority of which were higher risk accounts), but did not take adequate remediation steps to
reduce the outstanding reviews. For CMI E1, more than 50% of the accounts were overdue by
more than six months, and 81% of these overdue accounts were higher risk accounts. The longest
outstanding review period for six accounts was 10 years. For CMI E2, more than 18% of the
accounts were overdue by more than three months, and 33% of these overdue accounts were
higher risk accounts. Some periodic reviews of higher risk accounts even had outstanding action
points from more than four years ago.
Learning point: BSM needs to set the right tone from the top and ensure effective AML/CFT
controls. BSM needs to institute escalation frameworks and processes that enable them to closely
monitor the effectiveness of implementation of AML/CFT control measures. Even if escalation
frameworks and processes have been set up, serious AML/CFT deficiencies could still occur if BSM
does not actively oversee execution and intervene promptly to rectify ML/TF issues where needed.
Case Study F
CMI F’s BSM repeatedly failed to ensure appropriate alignment of its policy and procedures with
the MAS AML/CFT Notice requirements. The policy and procedures were initially drafted based on
MAS Notice 626 for Banks rather than the applicable MAS AML/CFT Notice for CMs, and were not
updated for protracted periods despite revisions of the MAS AML/CFT Notice.
Learning point: BSM needs to put in place processes to ensure that it stays up-to-date on regulatory
developments, and ensure that the CMI’s frameworks, policies and procedures are aligned with the
relevant regulatory standards.

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
iii. Failure to ensure appropriate compliance management and resourcing arrangements
2.12 A common observation by MAS was the lack of well-trained and adequately resourced
AML/CFT compliance functions that are empowered to provide robust inputs to management risk
deliberations. In CMIs with smaller operations, the focus of the sole compliance officer was observed
to be diluted by areas of responsibilities outside of the compliance scope. In a few CMIs where the
compliance function was outsourced, the BSM failed to adequately monitor the effectiveness of those
outsourced functions, which resulted in multiple deficiencies in the CMls’ AML/CFT controls.
2.13. In one CMI with a group reporting structure for compliance, there was a lack of clarity over
the delineation of AML/CFT roles and responsibilities, and the reporting lines of the local compliance
function vis-a-vis group compliance. Consequently, the local compliance function was ineffective in
performing its role as the second line of defence, and numerous gaps in AML/CFT frameworks, control
lapses and red flag indicators went undetected.
Box Story: BSM’s failure to putin place an effective compliance function
Case Study G
CMI G only had one local compliance headcount, who is supported by an administrative officer, to
manage all compliance affairs (including AML/CFT) of CMI G’s group of Singapore-based entities,
which comprised multiple lines of businesses. Additionally, MAS’ inspection found that local
compliance focused more on complying with the group’s compliance procedures without giving
due consideration to CMI G’s local compliance requirements. As such, he did not manage to
adequately perform his AML/CFT responsibilities in overseeing CMI G’s AML/CFT processes and
controls on a daily basis, and failed to identify and address AML/CFT issues faced by CMI G.
For example, the compliance manager prioritised the timely completion of periodic reviews for
customer accounts that were flagged by group compliance but failed to resolve the backlog of late
periodic reviews based on local risk rating methodology, which was more stringent than the
group’s methodology.
Learning point: BSM needs to ensure that there is an effective local compliance function. Even
where there is group oversight, local BSM is ultimately responsible for compliance with local
regulations. Hence, there is a need to clarify the mandate/key performance indicators of the local
compliance function, and adequately assess the performance of the local compliance.
Case Study H
CMI H outsourced its compliance function to a law firm. However, the outsourced compliance
arrangement did not function well — the law firm was not involved in the handling of day-to-day
AML/CFT matters and did not ensure that AML/CFT systems and controls were effectively
implemented. These duties, including periodic reviews and transaction monitoring, were instead
carried out by the operations manager of CMI H, who was not adequately qualified. As a result,
several ML/TF risk issues were unsatisfactorily resolved and the required mitigation measures
were not taken.
10

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
Learning point: CMIs need to determine an appropriate compliance model that is suitable for their
context, and business/risk profile. Where AML/CFT compliance functions are outsourced, either in
whole or in part, mechanisms need to be put in place to regularly and adequately monitor the
performance of the outsourced functions. Where necessary, the firm should reassess the
appropriateness of the compliance model.
2.14 Asthe core of the second line of defence, the AML/CFT compliance function is responsible for
monitoring the quality of execution of the relevant business and control functions. Compliance also
needs to provide risk management input and be engaged in risk deliberations, particularly for higher
risk accounts. In this regard, BSM needs to ensure that AML/CFT compliance functions are adequately
resourced and effective by:
(a) empowering compliance functions to drive the monitoring and review of risks and
controls;
(b) providing sufficient clarity on compliance function’s AML/CFT mandate in the policies and
procedures (particularly for compliance functions which have multiple responsibilities and
reporting lines); and
(c) equipping compliance functions with adequate AML/CFT resources as well as capabilities
through appropriate training.
iv. BSM did not establish appropriate independent audit arrangements; or monitor remediation of
audit findings
2.15 CMls are required to maintain an independent and adequately resourced audit function that
is able to regularly assess the effectiveness of their internal policies, procedures and controls, and
compliance with regulatory requirements. Such an audit function would assist the BSM in its efforts
to monitor the effectiveness of the CMI’s AML/CFT controls.
2.16 MAS noted that a few CMs had failed to establish an independent audit arrangement. This is
not in line with the MAS regulatory requirement.
Box Story: Inappropriate independent audit arrangements
Case Study |
CMI | did not maintain an audit function that regularly assessed its internal policies, procedures
and controls, and its compliance with regulatory requirements. While CMI | did undergo annual
financial audits, these audits were designed mainly to ascertain the reliability of the firm’s
financials, and not to assess the effectiveness of the CMI’s AML/CFT internal policies, procedures
and controls, and its compliance with regulatory requirements, as required by the MAS AML/CFT
Notice.
11

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
Case StudyJ
CMI J’s compliance function doubled up as its independent audit function. As such, there was no
independent assessment of CMI J’s compliance function as well as effectiveness of AML/CFT
systems and controls, and gaps in its AML/CFT framework were not rectified.
Learning point: The independent audit function — as the third line of defence — plays an important
role in supporting BSM’s oversight of the effectiveness of the compliance function and AML/CFT
controls. BSM needs to establish an effective independent audit function, and set up proper
reporting arrangements so that BSM can be promptly updated on audit issues and concerns.
2.17. Other CMIs had an independent audit function, but in a few cases, BSM failed to actively
oversee the remediation of audit findings. In a couple of instances, audit findings remained unresolved
despite being repeatedly raised by auditors over a sustained period of more than 3 years.
Box Story: Lax monitoring of audit remediation
Case Study K
CMI K’s BSM did not actively monitor the progress of remediation arising from an AML/CFT
external audit, which led to persistence of bad AML/CFT practices within the firm and repeated
findings in a subsequent internal audit and MAS’ inspection.
Learning point: Delays in rectification of audit issues, if left unaddressed, can expose the firm to
heightened ML/TF, legal, reputational and regulatory risks. BSM needs to follow up on audit issues
and send a strong message to staff that tardy attitudes in remediating audit findings will not be
tolerated.
2.18 Policies and procedures for periodic AML/CFT audits, reporting of strengths and gaps, as well
as monitoring and closure of follow-up actions should also be established and implemented. The BSM
needs to institute appropriate reporting structures, so that they are kept updated regularly on audit
issues and are able to assess whether the control gaps and recommended enhancements raised by
auditors have been appropriately addressed in accordance with agreed timelines.
12

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
3 Risk Awareness
3.1 Strong risk awareness among BSM and staff is a necessary precondition for effective AML/CFT
risk mitigation. Without adequate risk awareness, it would be difficult for BSM and staff of CMIs to
properly identify and address ML/TF risks even if they were equipped with comprehensive checklists.
To cultivate the appropriate level of risk awareness, BSM and staff need to be provided with sufficient
training and guidance, and assigned clear AML/CFT responsibilities. It is important that each employee
of the CMI understands the nature and extent of ML/TF risks arising from the company’s business, as
well as his/her individual ownership and accountability for managing ML/TFE risks.
3.2 CMs are expected to inculcate strong ML/TF risk awareness across the three lines of defence,
so that staff apply sound judgment to:
e Adequately identify key ML/TF risks, understand and assess the consequences of these risks,
and take the appropriate risk mitigation measures; and
e Effectively escalate and communicate pertinent ML/TF risk concerns to BSM for them to (i)
assess the adequacy of risk mitigation measures, and (ii) where necessary, deliberate on the
continuation or termination of customer relationships.
Key Findings and Recommendations
3.3 In a few of the inspected CMIs, the MAS examiners observed poor ML/TF risk awareness
across all three lines of defence that undermined the effectiveness of the CMIs’ AML/CFT controls.
There was a lack of awareness, particularly in respect of STR reporting obligations and the
identification of ML/TF red flag indicators, including indicators of tax-related ML risk.
i. Inability of first line of defence to detect ML/TF red flags
3.4 MAS noted that ina number of instances, the CMI’s front office staff, the first line of defence
in charge of identifying, assessing and controlling its ML/TF risks, focused on rote fulfilment of
compliance requirements, and were not attuned to identifying ML/TF risks. ML/TF red flags may arise
from customer representations or anomalies in supporting documents provided, and could be early
indications that a customer’s monies were from illicit activities. Hence, there is a need for CMs to be
alert to such red flags and promptly take mitigation measures, including enhanced monitoring of
customer, filing of STRs where warranted, or even exiting the customer relationship.
3.5 There were several instances where CMls’ staff displayed a lackadaisical attitude in fulfilling
their AML/CFT responsibilities. In a few cases, staff were apathetic when faced with apparent red flags
(e.g. transactions that did not make sense economically, evasive behaviour) and did not probe further
to determine if mitigation measures need to be applied.
13

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
Box Story: Failure to identify and follow up appropriately on ML/TF red flags
Case Study L — Intentional layering to mask the actual source of funds of the assets settled into the
account
CMI L’s customer, Mr X, had always specified the need for heightened confidentiality. At
onboarding, Mr X set up a Singapore-incorporated investment holding company to pump monies
into the underlying company of the structure managed by CMI L. Mr X mentioned that the rationale
for injecting funds via the newly created Singapore-incorporated company was to avoid possible
queries from tax authorities in Country A, where the monies were generated. The customer
claimed to have taken extra care to make himself a non-tax resident in Country A, although his
source of wealth was evidently from his business in Country A. CMI L failed to follow up on the tax-
related red flags at onboarding as well as on an ongoing basis, and failed to file an STR.
Case Study M — Behavioural red flags
CMI M’s (a licensed trust company) customer structured the trust such that CMI M did not have
control over the bank accounts of the immediate asset holding companies. Moreover, the
customer was highly uncooperative in furnishing the bank statements and financial statements of
the immediate asset holding companies on a regular basis, with some of these statements
provided only three years later. This impeded CMI M’s ability to monitor the business relations of
the customer on an ongoing basis. Notwithstanding, staff of CMI M did not take appropriate risk
mitigation measures or escalate the case to senior management.
Learning point: CMIs need to imbue in staff a sense of responsibility for detecting ML/TF red flags.
While ML/TF typologies may be complex, tell-tale signs are often present and staff who are
adequately trained and have individual ownership over ML/TF risks would be able to detect unusual
transactions or suspicious patterns of behaviour so that appropriate risk mitigation measures,
including enhanced monitoring and filing of STRs, can be taken.
3.6 MAS observed that the poor risk awareness arose primarily due to the lack of (i) emphasis
from top management on the importance of AML/CFT; (ii) staff performance evaluation and incentive
structures that support clear accountability of AML/CFT issues; and (iii) guidance and training that are
tailored to the specific business model and risk profile of the CMI.
3.7 It is essential for CMIs to develop guidance on ML/TF red flags specific to their business
operations® so that employees can identify and assess ML/TF red flag indicators effectively. To ensure
that staff are able to fulfil their respective AML/CFT responsibilities, tailored training should be
provided for staff performing different AML/CFT functions. CMIs should also consider expounding
learning points from specific real-life case studies, e.g. sharing with front office and other relevant
staff suspicious transactions and customer behaviours which could lead or led to filing of STRs, that
have been encountered by other staff of the CMI.
® CMIs can refer to Appendix B of the various Guidelines to the MAS AML/CFT Notices for examples of suspicious
transactions. CMls are to refer to STRO’s website for the latest list of red flags. In this regard, the website address
as at 20 August 2018 can be found at this link.
14

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
ii. Lack of awareness concerning STR reporting obligations
3.8 MAS noted that several CMIs lacked awareness of their legal obligations pursuant to the
Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act (“CDSA”) to report
any knowledge or reasonable suspicion of property potentially linked to criminal conduct (“STR
reporting requirements”). A few CMIs had the wrong notion that it has to be proven beyond doubt
that a customer was involved in criminal activity before an STR is filed. There were also CMIs that
thought erroneously that they need not file STRs because other Fis (e.g. custodian banks) were
involved in servicing the same customer, and they could leave it to the other Fls to file the STRs. These
misconceptions led to the failure of a few CMIs to promptly file STRs where required.
3.9 CMlis are reminded that they have an obligation to lodge an STR with STRO and extend a copy
to MAS whenever there are reasonable grounds for suspicion that funds are/were connected to
criminal conduct or terrorism financing. For example, CMIs should file an STR when they become
aware of their customers’ participation in tax amnesty programmes (“TAP”). While participation in
TAP, in and of itself, does not mean that the customer has committed a tax crime, it is nonetheless an
indication that funds in the customer’s accounts managed by the CMI could be proceeds of tax crimes.
A follow-up STR may subsequently be filed upon the CMI’s review of the customer’s account if there
is additional pertinent information leading to ML suspicion in the customer’s transactions and account
conduct.
iii. Inadequate awareness of tax-related ML risk
3.10 From our interactions with the CMIs, MAS observed the following common misperceptions:
e The advent of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”) and the Common Reporting
Standard (“CRS”) equate to the elimination of tax-related ML risk for customers; and
e Acustomer’s participation in TAP eradicates tax risk concerns and implies that the customer’s
tax situation is fully regularised.
3.11 | CMls should exercise vigilance and avoid having a complacent mind-set in assessing tax-
related ML risks of their customers. In this regard, a CMI could consider in its assessment of tax-related
ML risks, factors such as the relevant countries’’? compliance with the Exchange of Information on
Request standard as well as commitment to adopt CRS/Automatic Exchange of Information’, level of
AML/CFT compliance in relation to customer due diligence (“CDD”), and the customer’s participation
ina TAP.
3.12 Tax arbitrage opportunities remain despite FATCA and CRS implementation, as not all
countries have signed agreements to automatically exchange information with one another. For
instance, a customer may choose to change his tax residency to a country without an arrangement
with Singapore to exchange information. Although he/she may have good reasons for the change in
7 These could include the customers’ countries of incorporation/origin as well as countries where the customers’
sources of funds originate from.
8 Please refer to http://www.oecd.org/tax/transparency/
15

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
tax residency, the CMI should enquire further into this change and request for corroborative evidence
of the tax legitimacy of his/her funds, where relevant. CMIs should be alert to the possibility that the
customer may be trying to circumvent CRS reporting requirements to countries where he is a tax
resident.
3.13 Likewise, tax-related ML risk remains a relevant AML/CFT consideration for customers in spite
of their participation in TAPs. CMIs should not assume that the tax affairs of these customers are fully
regularised and should continue to monitor for tax-related red flags.
Box Story: Failure to detect tax-related ML red flags
Case Study N
CMIN (a licensed trust company) was engaged as a trustee to a group of customer accounts which
hold equal shares in a Singapore-incorporated investment holding company. The customer is
resident in CountryX where his business is also based; and had no business links to Singapore. The
customer had insisted on a high level of secrecy and all communication with CMI N was through
the customer’s lawyer. CMI N had not had a face-to-face meeting with the customer since
onboarding.
The customer had refused to sign a tax compliance declaration since 2013, and had not provided
CMI N with his FATCA declaration and CRS self-certification forms. In recent years, the customer’s
lawyer was also unwilling to provide CMI N with documents to corroborate the legitimacy or
economic purpose of the transactions of the Singapore investment holding company. CMI N was
also not kept informed of the transactions and activities of the underlying companies held by the
Singapore investment holding company.
Moreover, as CMI N did not have control over the underlying companies’ bank accounts, it was
unable to carry out transaction monitoring since the corporate director of the underlying
companies did not provide CMI N with the bank statements.
Despite the apparent red flags and the customer being designated as higher risk by CMI N, CMI N
failed to conduct enhanced monitoring of its business relationship and transactions, or file an STR
on the customer.
Learning point: Serious tax crimes are ML predicate offences. CMIs must be alert to tax-related ML
risks. Where there are red flags and customers are not forthcoming in providing information and
supporting documents that would help address any suspicions, appropriate risk-mitigation
measures should be taken. These include enhanced monitoring of customer, filing of STRs (where
warranted), and discontinuing the customer relationship, where ML risks are unacceptable to the
CMI.
16

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
4. Execution
4.1 The effectiveness of a CMI’s AML/CFT controls is dependent on the quality of staff’s execution.
A CMI’s ML/TF risks should be adequately addressed and mitigated through proper implementation
of systems, processes and controls that are carried out by staff with good risk awareness and
understanding.
Key Findings and Recommendations
4.2 MAS noted a number of execution lapses in the CMlIs inspected that stemmed from the
“check-box” approach taken by CMIs. BSM and staff did not fully understand the risk considerations
and purposes underpinning certain AML/CFT controls. Given the increasing complexity of ML/TF
typologies and the need for CMls to be vigilant in detecting suspicious customer behavioural patterns,
such a “check-box” approach is clearly inadequate, and has resulted in CMIs missing out significant
ML/TF red flags.
i Knowing your customer - reliance on third parties to conduct CDD
4.3 The inspected CMls generally had policies and procedures in place for the identification and
verification of customers and beneficial owners. For customers that were not natural persons, the
CMls also sought to understand the ownership and control structure of the corporate entity.
4.4 Where new customers were referred to the CMIs by third parties, some CMs relied on the
third parties to obtain the necessary CDD information for onboarding. While CMls are allowed to rely
on third parties to perform CDD measures on prospective customers, CMIs should satisfy themselves
that the third party’s CDD standards meet regulatory requirements as well as their own internal
policies. Additionally, CMls should assess that the third parties used are licensed and supervised for
compliance with AML/CFT requirements that are consistent with FATF standards, and have adequate
measures to comply with those requirements (i) before placing reliance on third parties for CDD and
(ii) on a periodic basis. Where there is reliance on third parties, CMIs are required to immediately
obtain the CDD information which is obtained by the third parties.
Box Story: Reliance on a third party to conduct CDD
Case Study O
CMI O onboarded a new customer without face-to-face contact, via an overseas third party which
was assessed by CMI O to have met the requirements for reliance on a third party as set out in
the MAS AML/CFT Notice.
During the inspection, the MAS examiners found out through internet searches that the beneficial
owner in this case was a family member of a PEP; and there was adverse news on the beneficial
owner’s brother e.g. misusing company funds, insider trading and money laundering and violation
of banking and stock transaction laws. However, CMI O was unaware of these potential red flags
and thus failed to perform enhanced CDD measures on the account. In addition, CMI O had
17

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
executed several transactions by taking instructions from the third party without making
enquiries on the unusually large transactions.
Learning point: Where there is reliance on third parties in the CDD process, CMIs remain
responsible for their AML/CFT obligations in the MAS Notice. CMIs are required to conduct ongoing
monitoring of business relations with customers and cannot rely on third parties to do so. CMIs
must secure the necessary information and documentation to adequately manage the customer’s
risk on an ongoing basis. In addition, for customers who present higher risks, CMIs should
endeavour to meet such customers to better assess and mitigate the ML/TF risks posed.
4.5 CMls should have policies and procedures in place to independently monitor and review
business relationships with third parties periodically. In reviewing the reliance on third parties, the
CMs’ assessment should include the quality of CDD measures performed by the third party through
sample checks, and ensure that the CMI’s ability to manage ML/TF risks is not undermined.
4.6 CMIs are reminded that they remain responsible for their AML/CFT obligations in the
applicable MAS Notice, and there should not be any reliance on third parties for ongoing monitoring
of their customers.
ii. Inadequacies in source of wealth (“SOW”) and source offunds (“SOF”)
4.7 MAS found that some CMs failed to perform sufficient enhanced CDD measures for higher
risk customers. In a number of cases, there was a lack of corroboration of the SOW and SOF of higher
risk customers.
4.8 While the background information of customers and beneficial owners (e.g. business and
investment activities, professional careers, family background) were generally obtained and
documented by CMls, a number of CMis had purely relied on self-declarations and curriculum vitae
provided by customers and beneficial owners, and did not seek to independently corroborate the SOW
and SOF of higher risk customers as required by the MAS AML/CFT Notices and Guidelines. CMIs
should assess and validate the plausibility and reasonableness of the customer’s net worth against
their understanding of the customer’s background by obtaining supporting documentation and/or
using public sources of information as reference points. Examples of independent corroboration
measures include citing reliable publicly available information sources such as corporate registration
websites, company websites and news, as well as obtaining documentary evidence such as companies’
financial statements or management accounts, bank statements, independent third party
professionals’ (e.g. tax advisors) confirmations. CMls are also reminded to ascertain the legitimacy
and credibility of the documents furnished by the customers in this regard.
Box Story: Inadequate corroboration of SOW and SOF
Case StudyP
CMI P1 did not implement processes to corroborate either the SOW or SOF of higher risk
customers. At onboarding, CMI P1 focused solely on establishing customers’ SOF and was
18

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
unfamiliar with the concept of SOW. In this regard, CMI P1 performed internet searches on the
background of customers, but failed to establish and corroborate the customers’ SOW. In some
instances, the Company did not even obtain an indication of the size of the customers’ wealth.
CMI P2 consistently conflates SOF and SOW, treating these terms interchangeably, and failed to
provide adequate guidance on how to distinguish, assess and corroborate SOW and SOF
separately. For example, CMI P2’s policies and procedures advise that the corroboration of SOF
and SOW should be done on an “as appropriate” basis, without elaborating on what “as
appropriate” means. Notwithstanding that SOF and SOW may sometimes overlap in practice, such
conflation risks glossing over (i) the different ML/TF risks that SOW and SOF pose, and
consequently (ii) the different approaches that staff should take to assess and corroborate SOW
and SOF. Moreover, some of CMI P2’s staff solely relied on the customers’ self-representations
(e.g. Curriculum Vitae) to corroborate SOW. This resulted in unsatisfactory risk assessment of its
higher risk customers.
Despite CMI P3 being aware of a large third party injection for the funding of a higher risk
customer account, it relied solely on the beneficial owner’s representation that the third party
had the same beneficial owners of the customer. CMI P3 failed to seek clarification nor obtain
supporting documentation (e.g. constitutional documents) to explain the relationship between
the third party account and the customer, and independently corroborate the source of third
party’s funds.
Learning point: CMlIs should obtain a proper understanding of the separate requirements related
to SOF and SOW, which are elaborated in the various Guidelines to the MAS AML/CFT Notices.
Corroboration of customers’ representations using independent sources of information is
important for higher risk accounts, in order to detect customers whose monies may be of illicit
origin.
4.9 CMlis should obtain a good understanding of the customer’s intended purpose and nature of
the business relationship with them. For higher risk customers, CMls should take reasonable means
to establish and corroborate their SOW and SOF. Where it is not possible to obtain reliable supporting
documents from the customer (e.g. audited financial statements, salary slips, documentary evidence
of sale of property), CMIs should, at minimum, validate customers’ representations against
independent sources of information (e.g. salary benchmarking reports from Human Resource
consultancy firms, publicly available financial performance data for businesses of similar scale and
nature), and document its assessment of the plausibility of its customers’ wealth. Where necessary,
CMis should consider obtaining more stringent independent verification options such as obtaining
customers’ tax returns filed with the relevant tax authorities or commissioning external intelligence
reports.
19

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
iii. Deficiencies in ongoing monitoring framework
a. Improvements required in respect of ongoing monitoring
4.10 There is room for improvement in the CMls’ ongoing monitoring framework. In determining
which transactions are to be reviewed, a few CMs applied a single quantum threshold that did not
take into consideration differences in customers’ risk profiles. A few CMs also took a ‘silo’ approach
of reviewing each transaction and/or account on a standalone basis. As a result, these CMs failed to
detect a few cases where unusual patterns of transactions, which were individually below the CMls’
monitoring threshold but collectively amounted to a significant quantum, were inconsistent with
customers’ profiles and warranted additional scrutiny.
4.11 CMls should apply a risk-based framework that allows them to adjust the extent and depth of
their monitoring of customers according to the customers’ ML/TF risk profile. Additionally, CMIs need
to ensure that their ongoing monitoring is conducted meaningfully based on patterns of transactions
and aggregated positions (e.g. for customers with multiple accounts, and accounts of related
customers) to (i) better understand the risks associated with their customers; (ii) identify potential
ML/TE risks; and (iii) report suspicious transactions. For further guidance on transaction monitoring,
please refer to the applicable Guidelines to the MAS AML/CFT Notices, and the guidance to banks for
effective AML/CFT Transaction Monitoring Controls? published in September 2018.
Box Story: Lapses in ongoing monitoring
Case Study Q
CMI Q1 applied a relatively high single threshold quantum to monitor its customers’ transactions.
As a result, CMI Q1 failed to scrutinise a series of customer transactions that were not consistent
with the purpose of the account stated at set-up as the transactions were individually lower than
its transaction monitoring threshold, although the transactions cumulatively amounted to a
significant amount. CMI Q1 did not pick up several unusual elements and inconsistencies in the
sale and purchase agreements that were used to substantiate the transactions until prompted by
the MAS examiners. For instance, there were errors in the sale and purchase agreements,
particularly in regard to the customer’s bank details such as the wrong bank name, address and
SWIFT code. In addition, prices stated did not appear to entirely match the products sold, and
from a quick internet search, the nature of business of some sellers appeared to be different from
the product being sold.
CMI Q2’s policies and procedures did not require its staff to holistically monitor multiple customer
accounts with common beneficial owners. This has led to gaps in its ability to monitor suspicious
activities arising from more complex transactions involving multiple related accounts. MAS noted
that there were transactions and patterns of fund flows between a few related account
structures, as well as a separate PEP (whom CMI Q2 had assessed to pose significant ML/TF risk)
that ought to be flagged for closer scrutiny. As such, CMI Q2’s failure to implement the necessary
° The guidance for effective AML/CFT Transaction Monitoring Controls can be found at this link.
20

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
holistic monitoring measures led to lapses in the detection, review and conduct of the necessary
follow-up for several transactions that did not make economic sense.
CMI Q3 did not implement an adequate transaction monitoring framework to detect suspicious
transactions on a timely basis. Its transaction monitoring practice was to peruse the bank
statements of its customers’ accounts as well as the customers’ underlying companies on a
monthly basis. According to CMI Q3, it would also obtain and review the financial statements of
the customers’ underlying companies. However, CMI Q3 did not track and periodically follow up
on the status of these transaction reviews, or keep a record of transaction details (e.g. date, size,
purpose, counterparties). Further, there was no documentary evidence that the financial
statements/ bank statements obtained had been reviewed. Without a proper overall transaction
monitoring tracking and documentation system and process, CMI Q3 may inevitably fail to
identify any potentially suspicious transactions that warrant further mitigation measures in a
timely fashion.
Learning point: CMIs need to strengthen the design and implementation of their ongoing
monitoring frameworks. Among other considerations, CMIs may need to segment their customer
groups and establish appropriate parameters and scenarios to better detect deviations of
customers’ activities from their stated purpose of the accounts and _ expected
transactions/behaviours. In this regard, unless a CMI’s customer pool is homogeneous in
business/risk characteristics, a single monetary threshold for transaction monitoring is unlikely to
be meaningful.
b. Enhancements needed in risk assessment and risk mitigation measures for complex
structures
4.12 Anumber of CMls appropriately viewed the complexity of a customer’s ownership or control
structure, as well as those of their downstream asset/investment holding structures as one ofthe key
indicators in their ML/TF risk assessment. However, some of them did not provide clarity on how a
‘complex structure’ should be determined and assessed in their risk assessments or policies and
procedures. Examples of considerations that CMIs can use for assessing the risks posed by the
complexity of a customer’s structure include:
e the number of layers involved within the structure;
e the extent to which the layers increase the structure’s opacity and impede the CMI’s ability to
effectively monitor for suspicious behaviours and transactions;
e whether the CMI is able to satisfactorily understand and explain the rationale for the layers;
and the structure is consistent with the nature of the customer’s profile and his/her intended
purpose for setting up the account;
e whether the CMI is impeded in understanding the corporate entities due to the control
structure and nature of business of the corporate entities, e.g. operating companies held as
trust assets controlled by settlors and the licensed trust company does not have adequate
sight over the operating companies, through for example, obtaining their annual financial
statements.
21

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
4.13 While there may be legitimate reasons for the use of complex structures, such structures are
more vulnerable to being abused for ML/TF as they can be used to cloak or carry out illicit activities.
In dealing with complex structures, CMls are expected to understand the rationale, purpose and
intended activities of the structures in order to ascertain their legitimacy. In this regard, CMIs need to
also identify the natural persons having ultimate beneficial ownership and control of these structures.
Additional due diligence measures that CMIs can consider adopting to mitigate the risk(s) include,
inter alia:
reviewing the financial statements and/or management accounts of all entities within the
structure on a regular basis;
reviewing the entities’ transaction activities regularly to detect unusual or suspicious patterns
and behaviours;
obtaining independent legal or other expert advice (e.g. tax advice) to help the CMI make
informed risk assessments of such structures;
performing the following due diligence measures before accepting operating companies
(“OpCo”) as injections into their customers’ accounts e.g. trust accounts, bespoke investment
funds:
o Understand the profile and operations of the OpCo via meetings with customers and
publicly available sources of information;
o Obtain the OpCo’s constitutional documents and audited financial statements to
ascertain the legitimacy of the OpCo’s business;
Perform site visits to the OpCo’s business premises to detect shell operations;
Conduct screenings and/or internet searches for adverse ML/TF news on directors
and shareholders of OpCos.
reviewing periodically (at least annually) activities of the corporate entities/OpCos using
financial statements and bank statements to ascertain whether the transactions are in line
with the CMI’s knowledge of the customer's profile and business, or whenever there is any
change in the customer’s structure or OpCo’s business, whichever is earlier.
Box Story: Insufficient downstream due diligence conducted in respect of OpCos
Case Study R
CMI R1 acknowledged that the presence of OpCos within a structure pose a heightened
challenge to CMI R1’s effective monitoring of these accounts for suspicious activities, as CMI R1
may not have access to or understand the OpCo’s business and its transactions enough to assess
whether any suspicious activities may have taken place. In spite of this, CMI R1’s risk assessment
framework did not consider the presence of OpCos as a risk indicator requiring consideration.
CMI R2 represented that it would obtain and review financial statements and bank statements
for structures which involve OpCos. However, there was no guidance to staff on the i) review
and analysis of these documents, ii) frequency of reviews, and iii) escalation process to
management upon identification of red flag indicators.
22

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
In the absence of a proper transaction monitoring framework for structures involving OpCos,
coupled with the lack of an overall tracking and documentation system, CMI R2 consequently
failed to detect potentially suspicious transactions that were flagged by the MAS examiners.
Learning point: Most of the inspected CMIs share the view that OpCos within customer structures
create challenges for AML/CFT ongoing monitoring. CMIs need to assess whether they are able
to address any consequential impediments to effective AML/CFT controls, the extent of residual
risks, and whether those residual risks are within the risk appetite of the firm.
23

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
5 Summary of Supervisory Expectations
Through the inspections of CMIs, MAS has noted areas where the industry could benefit from
additional guidance. Key areas of concern and corresponding recommendations for sound practices
have been discussed in the earlier sections. To aid in the prioritisation of CMls’ efforts to continually
enhance their controls, this section sets out MAS’ key supervisory expectations covered in this
guidance paper.
Governance
5.1 To build a robust AML/CFT governance framework, BSM should have adequate oversight of
the effectiveness of AML/CFT systems, processes and controls, and put in place competent and
adequately resourced compliance and independent audit arrangements. There should also be
adequate and timely reporting to BSM on key ML/TF risk issues and concerns. CMIs should also:
G.1 Put in place a review process to periodically assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the
firm’s AML/CFT compliance frameworks, systems and processes. The EwRA framework
should be one of the key areas prioritised for the initial review.
G.2 Clearly define the roles and responsibilities of compliance and independent audit functions,
and periodically review their effectiveness in acting as the second and third lines of defence
respectively.
G.3. Review and enhance AML/CFT reporting processes to ensure that (i) the BSM receives
sufficient and timely updates on key ML/TF risks and challenges so that ML/TF concerns are
actively monitored, decisions on mitigation measures are taken and guidance for effective
execution are provided where necessary; and (ii) the remediation of audit findings is timely,
effective and sustainable.
Risk awareness
5.2 To strengthen risk awareness of BSM and staff, CMIs should:
R.1 Formalise individual ownership and accountability over AML/CFT controls, so that BSM and
staff are aware of, and understand their respective AML/CFT responsibilities.
R.2. Develop and communicate clear guidance tailored for the various AML/CFT functions.
Guidance should include the nature of ML/TF risks that arises from the firm’s business, red
flags based on customer behaviours and account activities, and appropriate escalation and
risk mitigation measures.
R.3 Review periodically, and enhance training programmes and curriculum (e.g. by including
new relevant typologies as and when they arise) to ensure that specialised training is
provided for the various AML/CFT functions and a framework for continuous learning is
developed within the CMI. To help staff obtain a better understanding of the AML/CFT issues
they might encounter in their daily work, case studies and/or role plays should be
incorporated, where appropriate, in AML/CFT trainings.
24

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
Execution
5.3
E.1
E.2
E.3
To support effective execution of AML/CFT frameworks, systems and controls, CMIs should:
Periodically review and enhance policies and procedures to ensure that they are aligned with
regulatory requirements and supervisory expectations, as well as any audit
recommendations. In this regard, the corroboration of SOW and SOF of higher risk customers
and timeliness of periodic review assessments should be amongst the key focus areas.
Implement an ongoing risk-based monitoring framework which ensures that enhanced CDD
measures are adequately applied on customers that pose higher ML/TF risks.
Put in place systems and processes for the identification, assessment and escalation of
ML/TF red flags, as well as the implementation of risk mitigation measures, including filing
of STRs, where required.
25

GUIDANCE TO CAPITAL MARKETS INTERMEDIARIES ON ENHANCING AML/CFT FRAMEWORKS AND CONTROLS
6 Conclusion
6.1 It is important that CMIs maintain effective AML/CFT controls so as to prevent the abuse of
their products and services for illicit purposes. Adequate focus has to be accorded to AML/CFT. CMs’
BSM need to set the proper tone from the top, imbue strong ML/TF risk awareness and drive the
effective execution of controls across the three lines of defence.
6.2 In the face of changing business environments and evolving ML/TF typologies, CMIs need to
continually review, adapt and enhance their AML/CFT controls in order to remain effective. CMIs
should also conduct a gap analysis, in light of this guidance paper, and take appropriate measures to
remedy control gaps or deficiencies identified within a reasonable timeframe. MAS will continue to
provide guidance and share sound practices gleaned from our inspections to improve industry
practices.
26

