N
. rs see

The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is an independent inter-governmental body that develops and promotes
policies to protect the global financial system against money laundering, terrorist financing and the financing of
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The FATF Recommendations are recognised as the global anti-money
laundering (AML) and counter-terrorist financing (CFT) standard.
For more information about the FATF, please visit www. fatf-gafi.org
This document and/or any map included herein are without prejudice to the status of or sovereignty over any
territory, to the delimitation of international frontiers and boundaries and to the name of any territory, city or area.
Citing reference:
FATF (2018), Guidance on Counter Proliferation Financing - The Implementation of Financial Provisions of United
Nations Security Council Resolutions to Counter the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, FATF, Paris
www fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfrecommendations/documents/guidance-counter-proliferation-financing.html
© 2018 FATF/OECD. All rights reserved.
No reproduction or translation of this publication may be made without prior written permission.
Applications for such permission, for all or part of this publication, should be made to
the FATF Secretariat, 2 rue André Pascal 75775 Paris Cedex 16, France
(fax: +33 1 44 30 61 37 or e-mail: contact@fatf-gafi.org).
Photocredits coverphoto: ©Thinkstock

Table of Contents
PART I. INTRODUCTION w.....cecesesssssstsseseteeseeeesneeeeeesesneaeaeeenesneaeaeeenesaeaeaeseaeeesesaeaeaseesesaeaeasensesavaeasanses 3
PART II. TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS ......ccccsssssssssssssssssseseeseesssesessessssaseeessesesaeeressesesaeas 6
A. Recent changes in UNSCR TFS on proliferation financing........csssseeeeeeeeeeen 7
B. Implementation Of R.7.icescssssesssssesesesseseeneseecessssseesseecsesessesasseeseecsasseeaesieseeseseseeseeaeseeseeassacess 8
C. Identifying and preventing SAaNctiONS EVASION .....sssseseseesesesseseeesseeeeseseeseseeseeaeseseeseess 11
PART IIT. OTHER MEASURES .....cccssssssssssssssssessetecsessesssaeeseeeesneaseeeesesneaeaeeesesneesneaeaeeesesneasorensesenaeaees 15
A. Implementation of non-TFS UNSCR PYoViSiODS......cccsssesseeseseseesssesseesssesseeaeeaeseeseeseseees 17
PARTIV. INTER-AGENCY COOPERATION AND COORDINATION FOR
COMPETENT AUTHORITIES ......cscscssssscssesessseesesseseeessessesaeseessesssaeeeeeesneasaeeeseessesneaeaees 21
A. Identification of key agencies /AUtHOTitieS........scsesessesseseeseseeeeseeseesesseseeseeeseeeeseseeseeeesen 21
B. Features of a well-coordinated inter-agency Cooperation SYSTEM ...sssesesseseeseeseees 23
C. Role of the lead agency/agencies /COMMIttEE ........esssesesesseeeseeseseeseeseseseeseeeseseeeseeseees 23
D. Effective sharing Of infOrmation ou... cesssesessessssesesessseesessssesseeeeseesseeseesesieassasesserseeenseneees 24
E. Possible issues which can be discussed at coordination MEetiNGS .......sseeesees 25
F. Case Studie .....eeeesessesseseeseeseesesseesteessessesesseesesesnestesnesassnesneeseeeeeeaeeeeeeneeneeassassiesneeseeeeeeneeneeneenesaes 26
PART V. SUPERVISION AND MONITORING OF COMPLIANCE .......ccscsssssssssssesssssssssesseaees 29
A. Control and MONItOTING PLOCESS ou. eesssesesseseeseeeeesseeseseeeeseeeseeeseeeseseeaseeeseseeeeseseeaeeeseaeeees 29
B. Remedial actions and Samctionss 0... cessessessessessessesseseeseesesseeseestesteateateaseneeaseeeteeeeteeteensssseaneens 30
C. Other general SUPELVISION .....ccessseseesseesesesseeceseseeseeseseeeeseeaeeeeseeseeseasseeeeeaseassieeseesseaneaseeesenaes 31
D. Promoting understanding of Obligations 0... csssessessesessessesesseesesesseesssesseeseesseneeneesseeess 31
ANNEX A: SITUATIONS INDICATING POSSIBLE PROLIFERATION FINANCING
ACTIVITIES Lecce ceessestecstestesseessesseeseestesneeasesseeseeseesneensessesseeseeseeeseeseeateenseaseeseesneaeesneensesseeaeeaneaeeseeases 32
A. Elements that may indicate proliferation financing uu... sesesseseeseeeeeseeeeeeseneseees 32
B. Additional potential indicators of sanctions evasion activity mentioned in
third-party reports o.eesceceecsecsecsecsecseeseeseeseeseecesseenestestesassnssnesteaseaseaseaeeseeseeseeateaeeaeeesesneseaneeneeneeas 33
ANNEX B: FINANCIALINSTITUTIONS SUBJECT TO TARGETED FINANCIAL
SANCTIONS .u..esseessessssssesecssesseeseeseesneenecssesseeseeseeseeseeasesseensesseeseesesuesneeaseaseeseeaeeeseeseeseeaseensensesseeaeass 35
A. [trOC UCUION Le eeeeeeseeseeseesteeteseeteetesnesnesnesneeseeseeseeseeseeeeesneanesnesnesseeseeseeseeneeaeeneanesneaassneaeeeeaeeeeneeaes 35
B. Application of targeted financial Sanctions .......cccsssesesesessessesssescesseeseseeasssseeseeeeseseeees 35
C. Payments made by designated financial institutions.........ccsssessesesseeseeneseeeeneenesen 36
D. Payments due to the designated financial iNStitutiOn......sessseseseeseeesseeneseseeeeeeess 38
ANNEX C: UN SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS RELATING TO THE PREVENTION
OF WMD PROLIFERATIONuu... eseessesssssesssesseestesnecssesceeseeseesneeneessesueeseesseeseeseestesneensesseeaeeatesesneeass 40
Bib]iO Graph y......cssesssessesssssssessescseseeseenesesseesesnsseeseseseeseseeseesesneseeseeseseeseeassieaeeseeseseeseeassseassaseesseassueeseassasseeaseasseaeass 76
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

PART I. INTRODUCTION
1. Recommendation 7 of the FATF Standards requires countries’ to implement
proliferation financing-related Targeted Financial Sanctions (TFS) made under
United Nations Security Council Resolutions (UNSCRs_ or _ resolutions).
Recommendation 2 requires countries to put in place effective national cooperation
and, where appropriate, coordination mechanisms to combat the financing of
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD). Immediate Outcome 11 and
certain elements of Immediate Outcome 1 relating to national cooperation and
coordination aim to measure how effective countries are implementing these
Recommendations.
2. This paper aims to give non-binding guidance to facilitate both public and
private sector stakeholders’ in understanding and implementing these obligations.
Additional non-FATF required elements under relevant UNSCRs are also included to
give stakeholders a more holistic perspective in countering proliferation financing.”
3. The United Nations Security Council (UNSC or UN Security Council) has a
two-tiered approach to counter proliferation financing through resolutions made
under Chapter VII of the UN Charter and thereby imposing mandatory obligations
for UN Member States:
(a) global approach under UNSCR 1540 (2004) and its successor resolutions:
i.e. broad-based provisions both prohibiting the financing of proliferation-
related activities by non-state actors and requiring countries to establish,
develop, review and maintain appropriate controls on providing funds and
services, such as financing, related to the export and trans-shipment of items
that would contribute to WMD proliferation. Obligations under the global
approach exist separately and do not form part of the FATF
Recommendation 7 and its Interpretive Note, and Immediate Outcome 11,
but do form part of the FATF Recommendation 2 and are relevant in the
All references to country or countries apply equally to territories or jurisdictions or member
states as referred in UNSCRs.
Public sector stakeholders could include financial and non-financial supervisors, customs, export
and trade control / licensing, law enforcement and intelligence authorities, financial intelligence
units (FIUs), as well as other government departments or agencies responsible for sanctions
implementation. Private sector stakeholders could include banks, MVTS institutions, insurance
companies, trust and company service providers, lawyers, non-profit organisations or trading
companies.
This guidance updates the previous version of June 2013 and Best Practices Paper to
Recommendation 2 - Information Sharing and Exchange Related to the Financing of Proliferation
Among Relevant Authorities at the Domestic Level of February 2012. It is without prejudice to
other existing guidance or work in this area (available at www.fatf-gafi.org): Proliferation
Financing Report (June 2008); Combating Proliferation Financing: A Status Report on Policy
Development and Consultation (February 2010). Similar to other FATF guidance, this paper is not
binding, and therefore compliance with it is not assessed in the FATF mutual evaluation or
assessment process.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

context of other FATF requirements on combating terrorist financing and
money laundering; and
(b) country-specific approach under UNSCR’ 1718 (2006) and
UNSCR 2231 (2015) and their (future) successor resolutions: i.e. country-
specific resolutions against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
(DPRK) and the Islamic Republic of Iran (Iran).* The scope and nature of
DPRK-related sanctions have been expanded following the country’s
repeated violations of UN resolutions. On the’ other hand,
UNSCR 2231 (2015), endorsing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action
(JCPOA), terminated previous provisions of resolutions relating to Iran and
WMD proliferation, including UNSCRs 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007),
1803 (2008) and 1929 (2010), but retained TFS on a number of individuals
and entities designated pursuant to these resolutions and also established
new specific restrictions, including a number of other measures. TFS
obligations under the country-specific approach form part of the FATF
Recommendation 7 and Immediate Outcome 11.
4. Proliferation financing-related provisions contained in UNSCRs of both
approaches are compiled and reproduced in their entirety in Annex C.”
5. The FATF Standards do not require countries to assess their proliferation
financing risks, and this paper does not extend the FATF Standards.° Furthermore,
the requirement to apply targeted financial sanctions in accordance with
Recommendation 7 is not risk-based, but rule-based.
6. Nevertheless, an understanding of proliferation financing risks will likely
positively contribute to a country’s ability to prevent persons’ and entities involved
in WMD proliferation from raising, moving and using funds, and thus the
implementation of targeted financial sanctions contributes to a stronger counter
proliferation financing regime. Countries who wish to understand the proliferation
financing risks they face or conduct such assessments may make reference to the
general advice given in the 2013 Guidance on National Money Laundering and
Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment.* Participation by all relevant stakeholders from
both public and private sectors in such assessments would be beneficial.
TFS under the country-specific approach fall within the scope of the FATF Recommendation 7.
Other measures imposed under the country-specific approach are not within the scope of FATF
Recommendation 7, but are mandatory for UN Member States.
This paper does not intend to replace other measures or obligations that may already be in place
for dealing with funds or other assets, or items or technology relating to the proliferation of WMD.
It is also not intended to extend the scope of relevant financial provisions contained in
proliferation financing-related UNSCRs.
UNSCR 2325 (2016) OP 7 calls upon States to take into account developments on the evolving
nature of risk of proliferation and rapid advances in science and technology in their
implementation of UNSCR 1540 (2004).
All references to persons apply equally to individuals as referred in UNSCRs.
wwwfatf-gafi.org/media/fatf/content/images/National ML TF Risk Assessment.pdf.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

7. This paper is divided into the following sections:
(a) implementation of targeted financial sanctions (including identifying
and preventing sanctions evasion), which includes guidance on
implementation of relevant UNSCRs, as_ required under FATF
Recommendation 7 (i.e. TFS for financing of proliferation) and Immediate
Outcome 11;
(b) implementation of other measures included in UNSCRs’ which go beyond
FATF Recommendation 7 but relate to proliferation financing (e.g.
mandatory UNSCR obligations, such as activity-based financial provisions,
economic/sectoral sanctions and other financial measures), since these are
related to targeted financial sanctions which alone cannot address the
financing of illicit procurement by the DPRK and Iran, and would require
alternative approaches by public and private sectors;
(c) inter-agency cooperation and coordination, which includes material to
assist countries in establishing and implementing a cooperation mechanism
to counter the financing of proliferation as required under FATF
Recommendation 2, Immediate Outcome 1 and Immediate Outcome 11. This
section also includes examples of detection of sanctions evasion; and
(d) supervision and monitoring of compliance, to assist competent authorities
(and self-regulatory bodies (SRBs)) in exercising oversight of private sector
implementation of counter proliferation financing measures. This section is
relevant to FATF Recommendations 7 and 2, and Immediate Outcome 11.
Please note that these provisions are made under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

6 |
PART Il. TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS
8. Recommendation 7 requires countries to implement targeted financial
sanctions to comply with the UN Security Council Resolutions relating to the
prevention, suppression and disruption of proliferation of WMD and its financing.
The UN Security Council has also called upon countries to apply Recommendation 7
and related guidance papers for effective implementation of targeted financial
sanctions related to proliferation."
9. Recommendation 7 is currently applicable to two country-specific regimes,
namely the DPRK and Iran. The Recommendation covers all existing and any future
successor resolutions. A list of resolutions and the relevant provisions are set out at
Annex C.
10. Targeted financial sanctions relating to proliferation financing are applicable
to persons and/or entities designated by the UN Security Council or the relevant
committees set up by the Security Council. Designation/listing criteria are:
(a) persons or entities engaging in or providing support for, including through
illicit means, proliferation-sensitive activities and programmes; ''
(b) acting on behalf of or at the direction of designated persons or entities; '”
(c) owned or controlled by designated persons or entities;'* and
(d) persons or entities assisting designated persons or entities in evading
sanctions, or violating resolution provisions.
11. Countries are required to freeze immediately the funds, other financial
assets and economic resources which are on their territories or under their
jurisdiction at the date of adoption of the resolution or at any time thereafter that
are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly by the persons/entities mentioned
in paragraph 10 above; and further ensure that no funds or other assets and
economic resources are made available to such persons and entities, except in
specific situations, and under conditions specified in the UNSC resolutions.
12. As mentioned in paragraph 5, Recommendation 7 is not risk-based. That said,
risk-based measures across the Standards can assist effectiveness under [0.11.
UNSCRs 1810 (2008), 1977 (2011), 2094 (2013), and 2270 (2016).
Relevant to both DPRK and Iran sanctions regimes. For DPRK, see UNSCR 1718 (2006) OP 8(d).
For Iran, see UNSCR 2231 (2015) paragraph 6(c) of Annex B.
Relevant to both DPRK and Iran sanctions regimes. For DPRK, see UNSCR 1718 (2006) OP 8(d).
For Iran, see UNSCR 2231 (2015) paragraph 6(c) of Annex B.
Relevant to both DPRK and Iran sanctions regimes. For DPRK, see UNSCR 1718 (2006) OP 8(d).
For Iran, see UNSCR 2231 (2015) paragraph 6(c) of Annex B.
Relevant to both DPRK and Iran sanctions regimes. For DPRK, see UNSCR 2087 (2013) OP 12;
UNSCR 2094 (2013) OP 27. For Iran, see UNSCR 2231 (2015) paragraph 6(c) of Annex B.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

A. Recent changes in UNSCR TFS on proliferation financing
(i) DPRK
13. Competent authorities, financial and non-financial stakeholders should note
that the scope of funds, financial assets and economic resources subject to
assets freeze has been expanded in recent resolutions for the sanctions regime
relating to the DPRK:
(a) clarifying the definition of “economic resources” subject to assets freezes,
which includes assets such as vessels;
(b) expanding the categories of list-based designations to include maritime
vessels subject to freezing actions, in addition to listed persons and
entities;'°? and
(c) including those funds, other financial resources or economic resources
outside of the DPRK which are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
entities of the Government of the DPRK or the Worker’s Party of Korea, or by
persons or entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, or by entities
owned or controlled by them, that the State determines are associated with
the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes or other activities
prohibited by relevant UNSCRs.'°
(ii) Iran
14. Following the implementation of the JCPOA that is endorsed in
UNSCR 2231 (2015), some UN proliferation financing-related targeted financial
sanctions against Iran have been terminated and a number of individuals and
entities listed by previous Iran-related UNSCRs have been removed from the list.’”
That said, a number of individuals and entities still remain on the list pursuant to
UNSCR 2231 (2015), which also allows for the listing of additional persons and
entities by the UNSC.'* Competent authorities should take measures to advise their
supervised entities, such that the latter would be aware of the changes and update
their procedures accordingly.
UNSCR 2270 (2016) OPs 12 and 23, and UNSCR 2397 (2017) OP 9.
UNSCR 2270 (2016) OP 32.
Since the Implementation Day of the JCPOA (16 January 2016), UN nuclear-related sanctions have
been lifted under OP7 of UNSCR 2231 (2015) but subject to paragraph 6 of Annex B to the
resolution. A number of proliferation-related sanctions and restrictions remain in place after the
Implementation Day. At the time of issuance of this document (February 2018), the UNSCR 2231
list (www.un.org/en/sc/2231/list.shtml) contains a total of 23 persons and 61 entities.
UNSCR 2231(2015), OP7.
UNSCR 2231 List: www.un.org/en/sc/2231/list.shtml.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

20
21
22
B. Implementation of R.7
15. Countries are obliged to implement the financial provisions of the UNSCRs as
they are made under Chapter VII of the UN Charter. The Interpretive Note to
Recommendation 7 sets out specific requirements concerning the implementation of
targeted financial sanctions on proliferation financing.
16. Countries are also required to submit implementation reports to the
Committee established pursuant to UNSCR 1718 (2006)."”
(i) Designation authorities
17. While the UN Security Council is responsible for making designations, it will
generally set up a subsidiary organ (e.g. sanctions committee) to handle the related
operational matters, including considering and making designations. Responsible
designation authorities are listed below:
(a) DPRK: both the UN Security Council and the Security Council 1718
Committee;
(b) Iran: the UN Security Council only, as the former 1737 Committee has been
terminated following the adoption of the UNSCR 2231 (2015).
(ii) Identifying and designating persons or entities
financing or supporting WMD proliferation”
18. In order to comply with and fulfil the preventive intent of the relevant
UNSCRs, it is necessary for countries to be in a position to identify specific
information supporting a determination and to propose additional persons and
entities, as appropriate, to the UN Security Council or the relevant Committee for
designation. Noting the increasingly prevalent use of sophisticated sanctions evasion
techniques by proliferation networks (e.g. the use of multiple shell and front
companies),”' it is important that countries submit information on these activities to
the UN for potential listing. While there is no specific obligation upon countries to
submit designation proposals to the relevant Security Council or its Committee, the
UN Security Council or the Committee, in practice, depends upon requests for
designation by countries. The Interpretive Note to Recommendation 7 specifically
mentions in its paragraph 4 that countries should consider establishing the
authority and effective procedures or mechanisms to propose persons and entities
to the UN Security Council for designation in accordance with relevant UNSCRs
which impose targeted financial sanctions in the context of the financing of
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.” Countries should have appropriate
legal authorities and procedures, and should consider establishing or identifying a
Required under OP 25 of UNSCR 2094 (2013), OP 40 of UNSCR 2270 (2016), OP 36 of
UNSCR 2321 (2016), OP 18 of UNSCR 2371 (2017), OP 19 of UNSCR 2375 (2017) and OP 17 of
UNSCR 2397 (2017). Implementation reports are published on the website of the Security Council
1718 Committee: www.un.org/sc/suborg/en/sanctions/1718/implementation-reports.
Paragraph 18 specifies the mandatory requirements under FATF Standards.
UNSCR 2270 (2016) OP16 and UN Security Council (2017) Final Report of the Panel Of Experts
submitted pursuant to UNSCR 2276 (2016).
Noting the requirements set out in INR.7, para 4 (e).
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

23
24
competent authority or authorities, to solicit and consider information from all
relevant sources to identify, and to collect as much identifier information as possible
about persons and entities that, based on reasonable grounds, or a reasonable basis
to suspect or believe, meet the criteria for designation as set out in section E of the
Interpretive Note to Recommendation 7. Countries should also develop and
implement publicly known procedures to submit de-listing requests as set out in
section D of the Interpretive Note to Recommendation 7.
19. In addition, competent authorities, financial and non-financial stakeholders
should note that the screening of names and addresses against the consolidated list
of designated persons and entities (including entities owned or controlled by them)
published by the UN Security Council or its Committee is necessary in ensuring
compliance with certain elements of targeted financial sanctions.” However, the
screening would not be sufficient on its own, as targeted financial sanctions are also
applicable to persons/entities acting on behalf of or at the direction of designated
persons/entities. This adds additional complexities for public and private sector
entities in identifying and detecting the persons, entities, and transactions related to
proliferation financing.
20. Competent authorities including intelligence and law enforcement agencies
as well as the FIUs are therefore encouraged to share information with and provide
guidance to the private sector on how to identify persons, entities, and assets subject
to freezing measures. (See Part IV of this Guidance on inter-agency cooperation and
coordination, as well as Annex B for further guidance to financial institutions).
21. Information collection and sharing by countries is encouraged in order to
facilitate the Security Council 1718 Committee in identifying and designating
persons/entities engaged in sanctions evasion through the use of front companies,
shell companies, joint ventures, and complex or opaque ownership structures,
thereby fulfilling its mandate under UNSCR 2270 (2016) OP 16.
(iii) Freezing and prohibiting dealing in funds or other assets of
designated persons and entities~
22. Paragraph 5 of the Interpretive Note to Recommendation 7 addresses
the obligation of countries to implement targeted financial sanctions without delay
against designated persons and entities when the relevant UN Security Council or
Committee are acting under the authority of Chapter VII of the Charter of the UN.
23. Countries should undertake a number of additional measures and safeguards
in order to:
(a) ensure that targeted financial sanctions are implemented effectively,
robustly, and without delay;
(b) prevent any prohibited payments;
(c) preserve the rights of innocent third parties; and
A consolidated list of persons and entities designated under UNSCR 1718 (2006) and its successor
resolutions (on the DPRK) and listed under UNSCR 2231 (2015) (on Iran) can be found at the
websites of the Security Council 1718 Committee
(www.un.org/sc/suborg/en/sanctions/1718/materials) and Security Council
(www.un.org/en/sc/2231/list.shtml) respectively.
Mandatory requirements under FATF Standards.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

10 |
25
26
(d) cooperate internationally with other competent authorities within their legal
framework; and
(e) prevent asset flight.
24. Further guidance regarding additional measures and safeguards, particularly
in the context of implementing targeted financial sanctions against a designated
financial institution or relating to a specific types of financial service, is provided in
Annex B to this Guidance.
(iv) Post-freezing reporting and investigation2®
25. Paragraph 6(d) of the Interpretive Note to Recommendation 7 states
that countries should require financial institutions and designated non-financial
businesses and professions (DNFBPs) to report to competent authorities any assets
frozen or actions taken in compliance with the prohibition requirements of the
relevant UNSCRs, including attempted transactions, and ensure that such
information is effectively reviewed and utilised by competent authorities. As an
example, countries may facilitate their implementation of this requirement by:
(a) developing procedures, within their legal framework, to ensure that
competent authorities receive, share, and act on information gathered from
the private sector related to the freezing of funds or other assets, or
attempted prohibited transactions, including sharing such information
internationally to the extent appropriate; and
(b) providing, to the extent appropriate, general feedback to and developing a
dialogue with financial institutions and DNFBPs indicating how financial
information relating to the reporting of frozen funds or other assets or
attempted prohibited transactions is generally being used to support actions
against WMD proliferation financing.
(v) Providing access to frozen funds or other assets”
26. | Where countries have determined that the exemption conditions set out in
UNSCR 1718 (2006) and UNSCR 2231 (2015) are met, countries should authorise
access to funds or other assets in accordance with the procedures set out therein,
and pursuant to paragraph 9 of the Interpretive Note to Recommendation 7.
Where the funds or other assets are owned or held by a designated financial
institution, countries should undertake a number of additional measures and
safeguards to ensure that only permitted payments are made. Annex B to this
Guidance provides further guidance regarding such additional measures and
safeguards.
Mandatory requirements under FATF Standards.
Mandatory requirements under FATF Standards.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

27
28
29
30
| 11
C. Identifying and preventing sanctions evasion”’
27. As noted above, implementation of UN targeted financial sanctions on the
DPRK not only requires freezing measures directed at those designated/listed by the
United Nations, but also those:
(a) acting on behalf of, or at their direction of, whether directly or indirectly of,
designated persons or entities;
(b) owned or controlled by them; and
(c) assisting them in evading sanctions or violating resolution provisions.
28. In the case of Iran, paragraph 6(c) of Annex B to UNSCR 2231 (2015)
specifies that it is for the Security Council to designate individuals or entities that fall
into these categories.
29. To effectively implement the TFS, countries should put in place measures to
identify persons and entities who fall under the categories above, and to employ the
same measures against them that would be taken against those explicitly listed by
the UN. Specifically, countries should have appropriate legal authority and
procedures, and make the best use of all sources of information to identify persons
and entities assisting in sanctions evasion. *
30. An effective counter proliferation financing system requires adequate
cooperation and coordination between the relevant authorities to prevent sanctions
from being evaded.”’ Countries are encouraged to develop an understanding of the
means of evading sanctions present in their countries that can be shared within and
across competent authorities, and where appropriate, with the private sector, and
with other countries. To facilitate the development of such an understanding, below
is a non-exhaustive list of some examples of contextual factors and circumstances
(including types of customers and transactions) as identified in previous FATF
documents on proliferation financing and reports issued by the UNSC for
reference.” Countries should note that not all factors listed below are applicable to
all countries.
As far as FATF Standards are concerned, one of the characteristics of an effective system in
relation to Immediate Outcome 11 is that: targeted financial sanctions are ... monitored for
compliance and there is adequate cooperation and coordination between the relevant authorities
to prevent sanctions from being evaded. (See FATF Methodology for Assessing Technical
Compliance with the FATF Recommendations and the Effectiveness ofAML/CFT Systems).
The Security Council 1718 Committee may designate individuals or entities for evading of
targeted financial sanctions imposed by relevant DPRK sanctions. See UNSCR 2094 (2013) OP 27.
The UN Security Council or the Committee, in practice, depends upon requests for designation by
countries.
See characteristics of an effective system under Methodology for assessing technical compliance
with the FATF Recommendations and the effectiveness of AML/CFT systems.
See bibliography for source documents.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

31
32
12 |
(a) Volume of international financial services - financial centres have the
potential to provide proliferators the opportunity to exploit legitimate
financing and commercial channels to hide proliferation activities.
(b) Level of AML/CFT compliance- illicit financial activities often take place in
jurisdictions with weak legal and _ regulatory frameworks. Weak
implementation of CDD measures, TFS, and beneficial ownership controls by
supervised institutions may facilitate the use of legal persons or
arrangements for sanctions evasion.
(c) Underlying proliferation risk - factors affecting the proliferation risks (i.e.
the illicit movement of proliferation-sensitive goods) may be relevant to the
proliferation financing context. Such factors include the sectors and activities
identified in relevant UNSCRs (e.g. industries producing dual-use,
proliferation-sensitive or military goods; international trade and shipping
services; geographical vulnerabilities; and the presence of diplomatic
personnel and persons from countries subject to sanctions).
(d) Strength of export controls, customs and border controls, and other
mitigation measures - the extent to which the underlying proliferation risks
are mitigated by the effective implementation of export controls and other
measures.
31. As stated in paragraph 5 above, the FATF Standards do not require the
application of risk-based approaches in the context of counter proliferation
financing. Nevertheless, awareness of context can support more effective
implementation of sanctions by both public and private sector stakeholders.
Countries should consider providing guidance or analysis of the proliferation
financing context to private sector stakeholders, indicating the factors with most
relevance and impact.
32. Recognising the difficulty in identifying customers and_ transactions
vulnerable to or engaged in proliferation financing activities, competent authorities
together with supervised institutions should work within their legal framework to
provide additional relevant information to their supervised institutions where
appropriate. Examples of customers and transactions could include:
(a) names of specific entities and persons potentially tied to proliferation
networks, as well as end users of particular concern regarding items,
materials, equipment, goods and technology prohibited under the country-
specific resolutions set out in Annex C Parts II (c) to (i), including lists
provided by national export control authorities, where applicable;
(b) available typologies of proliferation finance (not limiting to those typologies
identified by the private sector stakeholders);*!
(c) available contextual factors and information related to proliferation
finance;**
See FATF Proliferation Financing Report (June 2008) and Combating Proliferation Financing: A
Status Report on Policy Development and Consultation (February 2010), the latter of which was
built on the former (available at: www.fatf-gafi.org).
See also Annex A to this Guidance.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

33
34
35
36
(d) lists and/or characteristics of persons who have been granted or denied
export licenses and associated transactional details (e.g. type of goods
involved, export routes, methods of financing, and the rationale for denial);
and
(e) information relating to the diversion of items, materials, equipment, goods
and technology prohibited under country-specific resolutions set out in
Annex C Part II (j).
33. Countries should encourage their supervised entities to take note of the
following circumstances where customers and transactions are more vulnerable to
be involved in proliferation financing activities relating to both DPRK and Iran
sanctions regimes:
(a) customers and transactions associated with countries subject to sanctions;
(b) instruments that could particularly be used to finance prohibited
transactions, such as certain trade financing products and services;
(c) customers involved with and/or transactions related to items, materials,
equipment, goods and technology prohibited by UNSCRs;
(d) reasonableness of invoiced goods against market value, inconsistency or
discrepancies in trade-related documentation.
34. In particular, countries should encourage their supervised entities to be alert
to the following non-exhaustive list of factors that are relevant to the DPRK
sanctions regime:
(a) significant withdrawals or deposits of bulk cash that could potentially be
used to evade targeted financial sanctions and activity-based financial
prohibitions;*
(b) opening of banking accounts by DPRK diplomatic personnel, who have been
limited to one account each under relevant UNSCRs (including number of
bank accounts being held, holding of joint accounts with their family
members);~“
(c) clearing of funds, granting of export credits or guarantees to persons or
entities that are associated with trading transactions relating to the DPRK;”
(d) providing insurance or re-insurance services to maritime vessels owned,
controlled or operated, including through illicit means, by the DPRK or
classification services to vessels which there are reasonable grounds to
believe were involved in activities, or the transport of items, prohibited by
UNSCRs concerning the DPRK, unless the Security Council 1718 Committee
determines otherwise on a case-by-case basis;*°
UNSCR 2087 (2013) OP 12, UNSCR 2094 (2013) OPs 11 and 14, UNSCR 2321 (2016) OPs 34 and
35, and UNSCR 2371 (2017) OP 11.
UNSCR 2321 (2016) OP 16 requires all States to take steps to limit the number of bank accounts
to one per DPRK diplomatic mission.
UNSCR 1874 (2009) OP20, UNSCR2094(2013) OP15, UNSCR2270(2016) OP 36,
UNSCR 2321 (2016) OP 32, and UNSCR 2371 (2017) OP 13.
This does not fall under the remit of FATF Recommendation 7, but activity-based financial
prohibition under UNSCR 2321 (2016) OP 22 and UNSCR 2397 (2017) OP 11.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

37
38
39
(e) direct or indirect supply, sale or transfer to the DPRK of any new or used
vessels or providing insurance or re-insurance services to vessels owned,
controlled, or operated, including through illicit means, by the DPRK, except
as approved in advance by the Security Council 1718 Committee on a case-
by-case basis; *’ or
(f) the leasing, chartering or provision of crew services to the DPRK without
exception, unless the Security Council 1718 Committee approves on a case-
by-case basis in advance;** or
(g) using real property that DPRK owns or leases in their territory for any
purpose other than diplomatic or consular activities.”
35. The 2008 FATF Typologies Report on Proliferation Financing provides a
starting point to assist both public and private sectors in understanding the risks
and situations where customers, transactions and other account activities may be
involved in proliferation financing. Since then, proliferators have developed more
sophisticated networks to hide such activities. Some of these recent proliferation
financing-related sanctions evasion techniques have been captured in the Reports
submitted by the UN Panel of Experts (PoE) to relevant UNSC or UNSCR committees.
36. With these contextual factors and indicators in mind, countries may take the
following actions to assist in the early detection of sanctions evasion techniques:
(a) focusing their oversight on targeted areas of sectors, institutions or activities,
including extending monitoring to those sectors which do not fall under the
definition of financial institution or DNFBPs but are vulnerable to
proliferation financing (e.g. maritime insurers or dual-use goods exporters);
and
(b) encouraging both financial and non-financial institutions to leverage on
existing risk-based measures to identify potential customers and
transactions that could be involved in sanctions evasions.
37, Regardless of the identified risk level, supervised institutions should be
reminded by countries that the factors stated above do not diminish the obligation
by supervised institutions to perform sanctions screening or other regulatory
requirements.
UNSCR 2321 (2016) OP 30 and UNSCR 2397 (2017) OP 14.
UNSCR 2270 (2016) OP 19 and UNSCR 2321 (2016) OP 8.
UNSCR 2321 (2016) OPs 17 and 18.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 15
PART Ill. OTHER MEASURES
38. |The UNSCR obligations mentioned in this Part go beyond the FATF Standards
(and are not assessed in FATF Mutual Evaluations), though they are binding on UN
Member States under Chapter VII of the UN Charter. However, as list-based targeted
financial sanctions alone cannot address illicit procurement and proliferation
financing from countries subject to sanctions (i.e. the DPRK and the Iran), the UN
Security Council has introduced other measures to counter this illicit activity.
Therefore, implementation of these measures contributes to a stronger counter
proliferation financing regime. As these measures are enshrined in UN Security
Council Resolutions, they carry certain obligations for member states and thus it is
important for public and private sector stakeholders to be aware of the provisions.
Countries may consider taking appropriate steps to ensure that their financial
institutions and DNFBPs are aware of the sanctions provisions and_ their
implications in this regard, since these are related to targeted financial sanctions
although they require alternative approaches by public and private sectors.
39, Some of these measures include:
(a) activity-based financial prohibitions: mandatory UNSCR
obligations requiring countries to prevent and/or prohibit certain
financial activities. Countries should take appropriate steps to ensure
that their financial institutions and DNFBPs are aware of their
obligations with respect to these provisions. A full list of these
prohibitions is set out in Annex C to this Guidance, Part (II) (c) to
fi).
Relevant to DPRK
© preventing the provision of financial services or the transfer of
any financial or other assets or resources that could contribute to
WMD or delivery systems programmes;*°
© preventing the procurement of missiles or missile related-items,
materials, goods and technology form the DPRK, and the transfer
of any financial resources in relation to DPRK’s missile or WMD
programmes;*!
o prohibiting the opening and operation of new _ branches,
subsidiaries, and representative offices of banks, entering into
joint ventures, or opening of accounts;
o prohibiting the use and transfer of bulk cash;
o prohibiting the provision of financial support for trade, e.g.
granting of export credits, guarantees or insurance;
Relevant to Iran
© prohibiting, without prior approval in advance by the UN Security
Council, any financial assistance, investment, brokering or other
services, the transfer of financial resources or services, or Iran’s
For DPRK, see UNSCR 1874 (2009) OP 18.
UNSCR 1695 (2006) OP 4.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

42
43
16 |
acquisition of an interest in any commercial activity in another
State, related to items set out by the Nuclear Suppliers Group and
the Missile Technology Control Regime;
o prohibiting, without prior approval in advance by the UN Security
Council, financial resources or services related to the supply, sale,
transfer, manufacture, maintenance, or use of certain
conventional arms, as defined by the UN Register of Conventional
Arms.
(b) vigilance and other types of financial measures: mandatory
UNSCR obligations requiring countries to exercise vigilance and
prevent procurement of items, materials, goods and technology by
the DPRK, and transfer of any financial resources in relation to
DPRK’s ballistic missile or WMD programmes, or encourage countries
to take additional precautions in relation to certain groups of
persons, types of financial activities, types of goods, or types of
activities conducted by certain groups of persons. The vigilance
measure is set out in Annex C to this Guidance, Part II (k); and
(c) economic/sectoral sanctions: mandatory UNSCR_ obligations
prohibiting the trading of certain types of materials or goods that
could contribute to WMD or delivery systems programmes, such as
aircraft, coal, iron, iron ore, gold, titanium, petroleum products, etc. A
full list of these measures (relevant to DPRK sanctions regime) is set
out in Annex C to this Guidance, Part II (j).
In the case of financial services related to nuclear technology, the prescribed prohibition period is
ten years after the JCPOA Adoption Day or until the date on which the IAEA submits a report
confirming the Broader Conclusion, whichever is earlier. In the case of ballistic missile
technology, the period is eight years or until the Broader Conclusion is confirmed.
UNSCR 2231 (2015), Annex B, paragraphs 2 and 4.
The prescribed prohibition period is five years after the JCPOA Adoption Day or until the date on
which the IAEA submits a report confirming the Broader Conclusion, whichever is earlier.
UNSCR 2231 (2015), Annex B, paragraph 5.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

44
45
A. — Implementation of non-TFS UNSCR Provisions
(i) General Principles
40. In applying the guidance in this section, countries should consider the
following general principles:
(a) countries should implement these measures according to their legal
framework;
(b) countries’ efforts to implement these measures should complement, rather
than duplicate, export control regimes or other existing WMD counter-
proliferation controls, or through the adaptation or expansion of existing
financial mechanisms, controls or prohibitions;
(c) countries may consider leveraging their AML/CFT controls in carrying out
their obligations relating to proliferation financing;
(d) supervised institutions can comply with these measures by identifying high-
risk customers and transactions, applying enhanced scrutiny’ to such
customers and transactions, and taking appropriate follow-up action to
promote compliance with these UNSCR provisions;
(e) supervised institutions should generally manage and mitigate their risk of
exposure to these measures by considering:
o relevant information provided by competent authorities; and
o existing customer and transactional information currently being collected
by financial institutions, including through their customer due diligence
programmes and existing AML/CFT obligations when identifying high-
risk customers and transactions; and
(f) supervised institutions should consider undertaking reasonable efforts to
collect additional information related to identified high-risk customers and
transactions and subject such high-risk customers and transactions to
ongoing/enhanced monitoring.
(g) encourage supervised institutions to use a risk-based approach;
(h) consider placing institutions involved in financial transactions or having
accounts or customers that are more vulnerable to proliferation activities,
under enhanced scrutiny; and
(i) countries should prohibit DPRK banks from establishing or maintaining
correspondent relationships with banks in their jurisdictions to prevent the
provision of financial services, * and to consider enhanced supervision and
monitoring.
Enhanced scrutiny should be applied to high risk transactions flagged through monitoring.
Straight-through processing would not be disrupted for transactions not flagged as high risk.
Post-event monitoring should apply, in accordance with a risk-based approach, to all transactions.
UNSCR 2094 (2013) OP 12.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

18 |
(ii) Identification of High-Risk Customers And Transactions
41. Countries should encourage supervised institutions to apply a risk-based
approach to identify high-risk customers and transactions. Recognising that
information currently available to supervised institutions may be insufficient to
identify high-risk customers and transactions, competent authorities should work
within their legal framework to provide additional relevant information to financial
institutions, where appropriate and in accordance with applicable data protection
laws. Examples of relevant information could include:
(a) names of specific entities and individuals of proliferation concern and end
users of particular concern regarding items, materials, equipment, goods and
technology prohibited under UNSCRs 1874(2009), 2087(2013), 2094(2013),
2270 (2016), 2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), 2371 (2017), 2375 (2017) and
2397 (2017) (relating to the DPRK), and UNSCR 2231 (2015) (relating to
Iran), including lists provided by national export control authorities, where
applicable;
(b) available typologies of proliferation finance (not limiting those typologies
identified by the private sector stakeholders);
(c) available red flags of financial activity related to proliferation finance;
(d) lists and/or characteristics of persons who have been granted or denied
export licenses and associated transactional details (e.g. type of goods
involved, export routes, methods of financing, and the rationale for denial);
and
(e) information relating to the diversion of items, materials, equipment, goods
and technology prohibited under UNSCRs 1874(2009), 2087(2013),
2094(2013), 2270 (2016), 2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), 2371 (2017),
2375(2017) and 2397(2017) (relating to the DPRK), and
UNSCR 2231 (2015) (relating to Iran).
42. In addition to relevant information provided by competent authorities,
countries should encourage supervised institutions to consider and rely upon
existing customer and transactional information that they currently collect,
including through their customer due diligence programmes and existing AML/CFT
obligations, to identify high-risk customers and transactions. Countries should
encourage supervised institutions to consider among others the following
determinants of risk specifically associated with UNSCRs 1874(2009), 2087(2013),
2094(2013), 2270 (2016), 2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), 2371 (2017), 2375 (2017)
and 2397 (2017) (relating to the DPRK), and UNSCR 2231 (2015) (relating to Iran),
to assist in identifying high-risk customers and transactions:
(a) customers and transactions associated with the DPRK and Iran;
(b) financial products that particularly could be used to finance activity-based
financial prohibitions, such as certain trade financing products and services;
(c) customers involved with and/or transactions related to items, materials,
equipment, goods and technology prohibited under UNSCRs 1874(2009),
2087(2013), 2094(2013), 2270 (2016), 2321 (2016), 2356 (2017),
2371 (2017), 2375 (2017) and 2397 (2017) (relating to the DPRK), and
UNSCR 2231 (2015) (relating to Iran); and
(d) significant withdrawals or deposits of cash that could potentially be used to
evade DPRK-related sanctions and activity based financial prohibitions.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 19
43. Countries should also encourage their supervised institutions to be aware of
risks associated with the use of their correspondent relationships or similar banking
relationships to provide financial services or products on behalf of high-risk
customers or to otherwise engage in high-risk transactions, particularly those
involving Iranian and DPRK banks, and to consider enhanced supervision or
monitoring.
(iii) © Enhanced Scrutiny Of High-Risk Customers And Transactions
44. Countries should encourage financial institutions to use a risk-based
approach to apply enhanced scrutiny to high-risk customers and transactions to
determine whether a transaction is prohibited. Such enhanced scrutiny may include
the collection of additional information as described in paragraph 45 below, as well
as ongoing monitoring as described in paragraph 47 below. If a supervised
institution has a reasonable basis to suspect or believe that a high-risk customer is
involved with and/or a transaction is related to an activity-based financial
prohibition, then the financial institution should take appropriate follow-up action
as described in paragraph 48 below.
45. Countries should encourage their supervised institutions to collect
additional information on high-risk customers and transactions in order to
identify, and avoid engaging in, prohibited activities, and to enable follow-up actions.
The ability of a financial institution to collect such additional information may
depend in part on whether the supervised institution has a direct relationship with
the customer, the mechanisms or instruments being used to finance the transaction,
and the financial institution’s role in the financial transaction. Depending on these
factors, a supervised institution may or may not have access to additional
information that may be useful in determining whether a high-risk customer is
involved with and/or a transaction is related to an activity-based financial
prohibition. Such additional information may include:
(a) purpose of transaction or payment;
(b) details about the nature, end use or end user of the item;
(c) parties to the transaction;
(d) sources of funds;
(e) beneficial ownership of the counterparty;
(f) export control information, such as copies of export-control or other licenses
issued by the national export control authorities, and end-user certification;
and
(g) in the case of a financial institution handling incoming wire transfers,
information in accordance with Recommendation 16 (Wire transfers).
46. Supervised institutions should apply these information collection
procedures to:
(a) Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) from, or diplomatic personnel
representing countries subject to sanctions and their family members and
close associates (in the context of DPRK sanctions only); and
(b) persons or entities which may act on behalf of or at the direction of DPRK
financial institutions, including their branches, representatives, agents, joint
ventures and subsidiaries abroad.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

20 |
47. Supervised institutions should conduct on-going monitoring of high-risk
customer account activity. Such monitoring should be conducted in accordance
with the supervised institution’s assessment of risk associated with the account.
Such monitoring should also ensure that the activity in the account is consistent
with the documentation associated with the transactions in the account.
(iv) Follow-Up Actions
48. Countries should encourage supervised institutions that either identify or
cannot resolve concerns regarding high-risk customers and/or transactions to
consider taking appropriate follow-up actions to prevent prohibited transactions.
Such follow-up actions may include:
(a) consulting with competent authorities, as permitted by existing legal
frameworks, in seeking additional information to assist them in properly
identifying such prohibited transactions;
(b) suspending a given transaction, unless all information fields of payment
instructions (which relate to the originator and beneficiary of the transaction
in question) are completed;
(c) suspending a particular transaction pending further investigation;
(d) refusing to process or execute transactions when the supervised institution
has been unable to clarify that such transactions do not violate the targeted
financial sanctions and activity-based financial prohibitions contained in
Annex C to this Guidance;
(e) terminating the relationship with the relevant customer or account.
49, Countries should continue to study measures to facilitate the effective
implementation of the activity-based financial prohibitions, with a view to
facilitating a harmonised and workable approach for financial institutions to prevent
engaging in financial activities prohibited under activity-based financial
prohibitions.
50. Countries should share information provided by supervised institutions
relating to potential activity-based financial prohibitions with other relevant
counter proliferation authorities internally, as appropriate and subject to countries’
existing legal frameworks. Information exchange related to WMD proliferation
financing among competent authorities is further expounded upon in Part IV of this
Guidance.
51. Countries should also share such information with counterparts from
relevant countries, as appropriate. Countries should establish controls and
safeguards to ensure that any information exchanged by competent authorities is
used only in an authorised manner, consistent with their obligations concerning
privacy and data protection.
52. Countries may encourage supervised institutions to consider proliferation
financing typologies when reviewing transactional and customer information
collected through their existing AML/CFT obligations and customer due diligence
programmes. The information collected should allow supervised institutions to
identify transactions, accounts (including correspondent accounts), or relationships
(such as accounts of DPRK diplomats, joint ventures or jointly owned banking
operations or facilities) with Iranian and DPRK banks and entities.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

46
47
| 21
PART IV. INTER-AGENCY COOPERATION AND COORDINATION FOR COMPETENT
AUTHORITIES
53. The FATF Standards require countries to establish the necessary legal
authority and identify competent authorities responsible for implementing and
enforcing targeted financial sanctions,“° and for competent authorities, to have
mechanisms for cooperation and, where appropriate, coordination mechanisms to
combat the financing of proliferation of WMD.””
54. Based on a review of mutual evaluations findings on countries’ level of
technical compliance and effectiveness in implementing targeted financial sanctions,
lack of inter-agency cooperation and coordination in the context of proliferation
financing is a common deficiency identified. While some countries have not
established a legal and institutional framework for implementing FATF
requirements on counter proliferation financing, others have not identified a single
agency/key agencies, or established any committee to coordinate or to be in charge
of supervision, enforcement or outreach relating to proliferation financing. Other
identified deficiencies include: no specific provisions in the law to extend the power
of the lead committee to coordinate and cooperate with other competent authorities
on proliferation financing-related policies and activities; the coordinating committee
only involves those authorities responsible for terrorist financing-related activities
and not all authorities responsible for implementing assets freeze relating to
proliferation financing are directly involved in the committee, or invited to
participate even on “as necessary” basis. While the FATF Standards do not mandate
a specific supervisory or monitoring model, being able to identify the relevant
agencies and link them up in the context of proliferation financing could support
implementation of 10.11 and R.7, as well as R.2.
55. This Part updates the FATF Best Practices Paper on Recommendation 2:
Sharing among domestic competent authorities information related to the financing of
proliferation, gives additional non-binding guidance to competent authorities by
highlighting features of an effective inter-agency cooperation and coordination, as
observed in recent mutual evaluations, and adds new case studies for reference.
A. Identification of key agencies/authorities
56. The implementation of UNSCR requirements often involves a range of
agencies at both policy and operational levels, and some of these agencies may not
participate in the AML/CFT framework. FIs’ and DNFBPs’ reporting on the assets
frozen, attempted transactions or actions taken in compliance with UNSCRs on
proliferation financing, as required by Interpretive Note to Recommendation 7
paragraph 6(d), is also relevant. Below is a list of agencies or authorities commonly
involved in the implementation of UNSCRs on proliferation financing (including
enforcement, monitoring of compliance, and information sharing and exchange), but
May vary across countries:
See paragraph 7.2 of Methodology.
See paragraph 2.4 of Methodology.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

22 |
(a) policy departments: introducing changes to the domestic or jurisdictional
regime, and identifying gaps in the regime. Examples include foreign affairs,
finance, commerce, home and justice departments;
(b) financial supervisors, competent authorities, and SRBs: carrying out
regulation, supervision, and enforcement to ensure that access to financing
for proliferation activities will be denied;
(c) export control and customs/border control agencies: ensuring
compliance with export controls and_ proliferation-related sanctions,
stopping shipments by sanctioned suppliers or to a designated end-user (or
by suppliers or to end-users of concern), sharing financial information or
customer-relevant data which could be useful in detecting actual end-users
and illegal transactions and could facilitate law enforcement agencies’
investigations by permitting a more thorough understanding of the
transaction and business structures and methods used to facilitate illegal
transfers of prohibited items across jurisdictions. As users of information,
export control authorities have noted that financial information may be
helpful in detecting actual end-users and illegal transactions and may
improve the effectiveness of investigations conducted by law enforcement
authorities by permitting a more thorough understanding of the transaction
and business structures and methods used to facilitate illegal transfers of
prohibited items across jurisdictions. Export control agencies therefore are
both providers and recipients of information in the context both
UNSCR 1540 (2004) and of the UNSCRs relating to the DPRK and Iran;
(d) intelligence services: identifying, analysing, and disseminating intelligence
on persons or entities who may be involved in or supporting proliferation
financing activities. Such intelligence-based information (i) could help link a
dual-use item and its destination to potential proliferation use; (ii) could be
used for proposals for public designation in accordance with UNSC
requirements; and (iii) could facilitate the decision-making process on
whether an export licence should be granted for a dual-use item;
(e) financial intelligence units: although FATF does not require STR reporting
(f)
on proliferation financing, some jurisdictions have chosen to establish
reporting requirements for supervised institutions as an additional means to
implement UNSC resolutions related to the DPRK, Iran, and
UNSCR 1540 (2004). Further, even in jurisdictions with no STR reporting
requirement for proliferation financing, FIUs may receive STRs on activity
linked to proliferation financing that has been identified by reporting entities
as a different type of illicit activity and may be able to share this information
with other competent authorities;
law enforcement and prosecution agencies: investigating proliferation
financing-related offences and enforcing criminal or civil penalties for
violations of laws and regulations related to proliferation financing or export
controls. UNSCR 1540 (2004) requires States to establish and enforce
appropriate criminal or civil penalties for violations of laws and regulations
related to export controls or countering the financing of proliferation;
(g) trade promotion and investment agencies: identifying and analysing
proliferation financing risks associated with countries subject to sanctions
when considering, and before providing trade facilitation; and
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 23
(h) other agencies or authorities: responsible for implementing the UNSCR
requirements.
B. Features of a well-coordinated inter-agency cooperation system
57. Features of a well-coordinated inter-agency cooperation system usually
include:
(a) involvement of all relevant agencies at policy, legal and operational levels, as
well as at national and regional levels;
(b) presence of a lead agency/agencies/committee and an_ established
coordination mechanism which is backed by a high-level of political will (e.g.
mandate at ministerial level) and is responsible for policy making,
prioritising policy programmes in the context of proliferation financing,
considering making designations, etc.;
(c) appointment of appropriate level of officers with decision-making power for
other competent agencies participating at inter-agency activities;
(d) conducting of regular and ad-hoc meetings, as well as periodic training
sessions to allow exchange of information on latest supervisory and
enforcement experiences, feedback on suspicious transactions reports,
investigation and prosecution progress, follow-up on supervisory actions,
latest typologies, evasions tactics, proliferation financing-related statistics
(e.g. amount of assets seized);
(e) competent authorities are provided with necessary statutory powers to
allow exchange of information (e.g. intelligence, financial intelligence or
sharing of suspicious transaction reports) and to conduct (joint)
investigations. In some cases, a memorandum of understanding or a
regulatory memorandum are prepared to clarify the specific operational
procedures;
(f) putting in place operational procedures or a response mechanism on how
respective competent authorities should handle enquiries relating to freezing
measures, false positives, potential evasions (including those by DPRK
diplomats or those persons acting on their behalf);
(g) adoption of a uniform approach in engagement and outreach, including the
frequency and content of materials to be shared with the private sector; and
(h) making use of both formal and informal communication and cooperation
channels.
C. Role of the lead agency/agencies/committee
58. Specifically, the role of the lead agency/agencies/committee should often
include:
(a) ensuring that the legal and regulatory framework is consistent with the latest
UNSCR and the FATF requirements on targeted financial sanctions on
proliferation financing, and with the latest UNSCRs related to WMD
proliferation;
(b) disseminating the latest TFS requirements and UNSC obligations to
government agencies, other competent authorities and stakeholders in the
private sector;
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

24 |
(c) updating government agencies, other competent authorities and
stakeholders in the private sector on recent proliferation financing cases,
where appropriate;
(d) identifying the agencies that should be involved in information exchange;
(e) promoting information exchange among different agencies to help identify
and prevent sanctions evasion;
(f) making use of a coordination platform/task force, regular issuance of
circulars, or establishment of a hotline to ensure the various agencies’
understanding of their respective supervisory roles and responsibilities, and
responding to agencies’ operational enquiries; and
(g) ensuring coordinated communication with the private sector to allow
consistency in the messages/requirements/obligations communicated,
especially when more than one government agency/department is involved
in such communication.
D. Effective sharing of information
59. A well-coordinated inter-agency mechanism, with participation of all
relevant operational agencies, facilitates the investigation of proliferation financing
activities and helps detect sanctions evasion through more effective sharing of
information:
(a) sharing among public authorities: lead agency/agencies/committee, FIU,
law enforcement and intelligence agencies, as well as competent authorities
responsible for sanctions implementation, may each have information
relating to proliferation financing-related transactions such as possible
assets owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by designated persons or
entities, or other sensitive proliferation financing, goods or trade-related
information. Effective exchange of information among company registries
and export control authorities with lead agency/agencies/committee, law
enforcement/financial intelligence/intelligence agencies, and vice-versa,
should also allow early detection of attempts to circumvent sanctions
through the use of third parties, shell or front companies to conduct
proliferation financing-related transactions;
(b) role of the FIU: Financial intelligence units may be able to identify potential
proliferation financing or sanctions evasion activities through STRs based on
suspected criminal activities, or through transaction reports filed based on
transactions above certain thresholds, or involving certain jurisdictions, or
through FIs’ and DNFBPs’ reporting on the assets frozen, attempted
transactions or actions taken in compliance with UNSCRs on proliferation
financing. While the FATF Standards do not require the reporting of
suspicious proliferation financing activities, the reports these institutions
make to FIUs can be a highly relevant resource for identifying individuals and
entities who may be involved in or supporting the financing of proliferation
of WMDs and enforcing and monitoring compliance with laws to counter the
financing of proliferation, and there is also no obligation for FIU to be
involved in CPF measures. Access to proliferation financing-related
information obtained by intelligence communities and other law
enforcement agencies by the FIU would also allow the FIU to leverage STRs,
which could be filed based on ML/TF or other illicit or suspicious activity,
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 25
against intelligence information to identify which transactions are of
proliferation financing concerns. Additionally, to the extent it receives
relevant proliferation financing information, the FIU should share it with the
intelligence and law enforcement communities and other competent
authorities;
(c) coordinated approach in communicating with private sector: competent
authorities should coordinate among themselves in issuing the updated list
of designated persons/entities/vessels, implementation guidelines, and
latest trends to the private sector by minimising duplication of resources and
ensuring consistency. Information on suspected proliferation financing
activities gathered by counter proliferation authorities, as well as FIU’s
feedback on STRs which eventually point to proliferation financing activities
should also be shared with supervised institutions as appropriate and
subject to countries’ existing legal frameworks. This will help private sectors
detect proliferation financing sanctions evasion early.
60. Countries should establish controls and safeguards to ensure that any
information exchanged by competent authorities is used only in an authorised
manner, consistent with their obligations concerning privacy and data protection.
E. Possible issues which can be discussed at coordination meetings
61. Incorporating all agencies identified above to coordinate the implementation
of the UNSCRs is a critical way of combating proliferation financing, and allowing for
joint analysis, coordinated and complementary operations, and more developed
policy positions. Such coordination and cooperation can also be a key confidence
and relationship building measure. A possible avenue to achieve this cooperation,
information sharing, and joint coordination may be regular or ad hoc inter-agency
meetings that may include representatives from financial, intelligence, export
control, law enforcement, regulatory/supervisory and policy agencies. Issues which
may be discussed at these meetings might include:
(a) monitoring and analysis of risks, threats, new trends and vulnerabilities in
the counter financing of proliferation regime;
(b) development of policy on combating the financing of proliferation of nuclear,
biological, and chemical weapons and their means of delivery;
(c) recommendations of appropriate responses for competent agencies to take
action to counter the financing of proliferation;
(d) identification of key intelligence gaps related to the financing of proliferation
and development of possible solutions to close those gaps;
(e) consideration of potential interdiction opportunities to impede financing of
proliferation activities and coordination of such actions;
(f) coordination and de-confliction of the activities of competent agencies
(including financial, intelligence and law enforcement agencies) in terms of
combating the financing of proliferation;
(g) coordination of investigations of financial support for export control
violations, and the enforcement of laws related to the export and
transhipment of controlled dual-use goods, including to sanctioned
countries;
(h) coordination and de-confliction of potential plans of financial, intelligence
and law enforcement agencies to identify and designate persons and entities
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

26 |
who may be involved in or supporting the financing of proliferation of WMD;
and
(i) review of mechanisms to ensure effective scrutiny of suspicious activity
reporting and to meet the requirements of sanctions implementation.
F. Case Studies
62. Below are two case studies of successful inter-agency coordination for
reference:
Case Study 1
One successful example of interagency cooperation on combating proliferation
activities involved the Finance, Justice, Customs, and Commerce Departments of
Country A taking action against a global procurement network that sought to evade
sanctions by illegally exporting controlled machinery with WMD development
applications to a country subject to UN WMD-related sanctions (Country X). The
network cantered around a father and son team, as well as other individuals, that
established a series of front companies in multiple jurisdictions to act on behalf of
the designated entities and ultimately export the controlled goods to the country
subject to sanctions.
Starting in the 1990’s, Individual A (the father) assisted Country X in procuring
WMD-related goods through a network of companies connected to a sanctioned
entity from Country X and its subordinates and was involved in shipping items to
Country X that could be used to support the country’s ballistic missile program.
Individual A was indicted by a third country’s (Country Y) Prosecutors Office for
forging shipping invoices and illegally shipping restricted materials to Country X in
June 2008 and was found to have used at least two front companies based in
Country Y to accomplish this scheme. As a result of these schemes, Individual A and
his front companies were designated by the Finance Ministry of Country A in
January 2009 for providing financial, technological, or other support to the Country
X entity, which itself was designated by the Country A in 2005 and by the UN in
2006.
After the Country A designations, Individual A, his son (Individual B), and a third
person (Individual C) continued to conduct business together, but attempted to hide
the now-designated Individual A and his companies’ involvement in those
transactions by conducting business under different company names. For example,
by August 2009 - approximately eight months after the Country A designations - the
three individuals began using a new company to purchase and export WMD-
sensitive machinery on behalf of the designated individuals. Individuals A and B
used bank accounts located in Country Y banks to transfer funds to Country A bank
accounts of their Country A-based facilitators, who would in turn use the funds to
procure the goods and ship them to Country Y. Due to the 2009 Country A
designations of the network, these transactions were already part of an illegal
sanctions evasion scheme, which would become the focus of the criminal charges to
be filed.
Country A’s Justice, Customs, and Commerce Departments coordinated on the
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

investigation of this case, based upon their individual subject matter expertise. In
May 2013, both Individual A and Individual B were arrested on criminal charges,
including conspiracy to evade prohibitions and restrictions imposed by Country A
and money laundering conspiracy. Both individuals eventually pleaded guilty to
various criminal charges in their indictments.
Case Study 2
(Relating to interagency coordination for implementation of targeted financial
sanctions by designating)
The development of designations for targeted financial sanctions in Country A is
undertaken in consultation with the Finance, Foreign, and Justice Ministries. The
Finance Ministry is very engaged with colleagues, in a variety of agencies,
throughout the investigation process. Initial targets are suggested through an
interagency working group, and closely coordinated and vetted within appropriate
agencies in the early stages of development. Depending on the amount of
intelligence involved in constructing a case, the Finance Ministry also works closely
with the intelligence community to develop a case for a designation.
In addition, the Finance Ministry goes through a formal coordination phase designed
to de-conflict proposed designations with the operational and policy interests of
other agencies, and to ensure that the targets are consistent with and further the
strategic national security and foreign policy goals of the country. Interagency
coordination is clearly a critical part of the process because it ensures that the public
designation of entities and persons involved in or supporting WMD proliferation do
not jeopardise the ongoing operations of colleagues in the law enforcement or the
intelligence communities, and are consistent with the government's foreign policy
and national security objectives and interests. The government is acutely mindful of
the importance of ensuring that it does not compromise sensitive sources or
methods that would harm national interests or the fundamental rights of parties
involved, and that the actions are coordinated with ongoing diplomatic efforts in
order to achieve effectively the national security and foreign policy objectives.
Once this very thorough interagency review process has been completed and the
Finance Ministry has received concurrences from interagency colleagues, the final
evidentiary package is presented. Before the designation is formally announced, the
Finance Ministry investigates whether a designation target has a presence in the
country. If such a presence is detected, investigators work to prepare an operation
to block any property that can be identified. Any domestic enforcement operations
are closely coordinated with law enforcement officers from other federal agencies
and local authorities.
In one particular case, Country A designated Company X due to its provision of
support for WMD proliferation. Company X was subject to a call for enhanced
vigilance by the United Nations Security Council. Company X was known to use
deceptive practices, including the creation and use of front companies to try and
evade sanctions and continue to engage in financial transactions with banks in
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

28 |
Country A. The Finance Ministry received information of possible front companies
from financial institutions who had discovered relevant data from performing due
diligence and investigating certain transactions which they deemed to be suspicious.
Based upon this and sensitive government information, including intelligence, the
Finance Ministry began to develop an evidentiary case to also designate front
companies of Company X to prevent them from using Country A’s financial system to
make payments which may have supported proliferation activity. Financial
information was used in the development of the designation and the corresponding
indictment against persons and entities involved. For example, in the account
opening documents for establishing one of the front companies, the listed address
and telephone number were the same as that for Company X. The Finance Ministry
worked with the relevant other government agencies, in particular the Foreign and
Justice Ministry, through a formal coordination phase to de-conflict the proposed
designations with the operational and policy interests of other agencies.
63. In addition to the case studies above, countries may wish to note the
following recent cases of successful cooperation:
e detection of proliferation financing activity based on a suspicious transaction
report filed on false documentation submitted by a financial institution, and
then followed up by investigation conducted by the customs agency with
assistance from the intelligence agency. The investigation eventually led to
prosecution and conviction, and reporting to the UN Sanctions Committee;
e seizure of assets by law enforcement agencies based on systematic reporting
of transactions involving countries subject to sanctions, or of transactions
exceeding a threshold to the FIU. Reports were followed up by the FIU, which
conducted analysis on capital movements and foreign transactions. When
irregularities were identified (e.g. such as the use of shell companies), this
information was then passed to law enforcement agencies; and
e reporting of suspicious information through the making use of an electronic
platform which links up various competent authorities and private sector
stakeholders including export industry, carriers, airlines, insurance
companies, lawyers and trustees to allow reporting of suspicious
information.
64. Countries should also share such information with counterparts from
relevant countries, as appropriate. The implementation reports compiled by the
UNSC Panel of Experts also recommend countries to strengthen information sharing
on transnational network evasion cases and typologies to assist financial institutions
in determining whether certain transactions involve activities prohibited under
UNSCRs. Examples of disruption of proliferation financing activities through cross-
border cooperation include detection of proliferation financing activity based on a
suspicious transaction report filed on sharp increase in the amounts of money
handled by the bank of a small-sized firm procuring sanctioned prohibited dual-use
products. Intelligence agency conducted investigation and forward case information
to entities in other countries through cross-border cooperation. The investigation
eventually led to prosecution and disruption of activity.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

48
| 29
PART V. SUPERVISION AND MONITORING OF COMPLIANCE
65. Another common deficiency identified among countries in carrying out their
proliferation financing obligations is weak or unfocused supervision in the context
of proliferation financing. Mutual evaluation findings suggest that supervisors
(including SRBs) are not adequately supervising for TFS, and that financial
institutions and DNFBPs generally do not pay sufficient attention to the
implementation of targeted financial sanctions related to proliferation financing.
This section sets out the elements of an effective counter proliferation financing
supervisory regime.
66. While the FATF does not prescribe a particular supervisory model, the
supervisory system so chosen should be appropriate for the country’s risk and
context. In building up a supervisory model in the context of proliferation financing
under Recommendation 7, countries should also make _ reference to
Recommendations 2, 26 and 28, as well as Recommendations 1, 19, 27, 34, 35 and
40.
67. Specifically, an effective supervisory model in the proliferation financing
context often involve the following measures:
A. Control and monitoring process
(a) competent authorities should communicate the consolidated list of persons
and entities through their websites immediately after publication by the UN
Security Council/Sanctions Committee, and preferably through one single
website to prevent confusion to different supervised institutions;
(b) supervisors may encourage their supervised institutions to apply a risk-
based approach in the context of proliferation financing, by making reference
to the FATF Guidance for a Risk-based Approach Effective Supervision and
Enforcement by AML/CFT Supervisors of the Financial Sector and Law
Enforcement, **
(c) supervisors should understand the proliferation financing contextual
situation or exposure to potential sanctions evasion faced by supervised
institutions and sectors in their country, e.g. customers, products,
geographical reach and delivery channels. While not a binding requirement
under FATF Standards, supervisors may note that proliferation financing
risks are distributed differently from ML and TF risks between and within
financial institutions. Adequately supervising the implementation of counter
proliferation financing measures may require supervisors to focus on
different business units and different products from those which are relevant
to AML/CFT supervision;
(d) supervisors should apply TFS screening as part of fit and proper tests to
control market entry;
(e) supervisors should consider the capacity and the counter proliferation
financing experience of the supervised institutions and individual sectors,
and their understanding of targeted financial sanctions obligations;
wwwfatf-gafi.org/media/fatf/documents/reports/RBA-Effective-supervision-and-
enforcement.pdf
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

30 |
(f) supervisors may determine risk-based methodology and procedures of
supervisory activities, including frequency, comprehensiveness, and tools
employed (e.g. from issuing questionnaires to carrying out follow-up on
remedial measures for off-site, or from conducting interviews, sample
testing, to reviewing records for on-site);
(g) supervisors should adopt a risk-based approach for determining the
frequency of off-site and on-site supervision;
(h) supervisors should determine in the course of supervision, the extent of
board and senior management oversight of proliferation financing matters
and adequacy of escalation of proliferation financing-related issues to board
and senior management;
(i) supervisors should focus on the effectiveness of sanctions screening, on
processes and procedures to detect sanctioned entities, and assets which are
owned or controlled by them. They should also review whether supervised
institutions are implementing CDD measures sufficiently to identify and
verify the beneficial owner of a customer or party to a transaction;
(j) supervisors should focus on supervised institutions’ identification and
management of false positives in the implementation of controls on persons
and entities subject to targeted financial sanctions;
(k) as far as the non-financial sector is concerned, supervisors may also note the
vulnerabilities associated with company formation (which is also applicable
to lawyers and TCSPs);
(1) countries should ensure their legal frameworks allowing supervisors’
appropriate access to the books and records of each supervised institution to
collect the widest range of information that a supervisor or a competent
authority needs;
(m) supervisors should cooperate with foreign supervisory counterparts, where
relevant, such as in instances where supervised institutions operate across
borders, including through arrangements to share confidential information.
B. Remedial actions and sanctions
(a) supervisors should ensure that they have a range of supervisory tools
available for use, i.e. from remedial, administrative, civil to criminal, and
understand how and when to apply them;
(b) supervisors should be able to revoke licences in cases of significant or
sustained non-compliance;
(c) supervisors should ensure proportionality of measures taken, depending on
seriousness of the breach;
(d) supervisors should communicate clearly and early to supervised institutions
on their failings and shortcomings. They should also keep supervised
institutions updated, especially on the results of supervision and subsequent
supervisory actions, in order to allow stakeholders to understand the latest
trends of proliferation financing activities and consequences of non-
compliance;
(e) supervisors should track progress of follow-up and remedial actions;
(f) supervisors should consider publishing manuals or procedures to facilitate
supervised institutions’ understanding of targeted financial sanctions
requirements, or general factors which supervisors would consider as a
breach of obligations.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 31
C. Other general supervision
(a) countries should ensure that supervisors are adequately resourced;
(b) supervisors should ensure officers responsible for supervisory activities are
well-trained;
(c) supervisors should ensure consistency in communicating obligations to
supervised institutions, and applying remedial actions and sanctions.
D. Promoting understanding of obligations
(a) competent authorities should conduct regular outreach and issue guidelines
and circulars to supervised institutions to explain their sanctions obligations
and cases of sanctions evasion;
(b) countries should establish communication channels (e.g. a hotline, or a
dedicated email account) to provide operational guidance and answer
enquiries;
(c) supervisors should update guidance material to reflect the latest sanctions
obligations;
(d) supervisors should consider providing both general and introductory
materials, as well as sector-specific information to cater to the needs of
different institutions with different levels of understanding of obligations,
different implementation focus, different methods of implementation, and
different geographical coverage.
68. Countries should also be mindful that supervised institutions adopt controls
relevant to their business model and assessed risks, and not all institutions need to
adopt identical controls in the context of proliferation financing. Supervisors’
monitoring should be adapted according to the supervised institutions’ size and
sophistication.
69. The monitoring programme should be conducted on a regular basis, instead
of conducting checks only when there is suspected violation of supervisory
requirements. It is noted from published MERs that there is often an absence of
systematic supervision on non-bank institutions, and especially non-financial
institutions. Countries should ensure that there is a comprehensive monitoring
programme for all supervised institutions.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

49
32 |
ANNEX A:
SITUATIONS INDICATING
POSSIBLE PROLIFERATION FINANCING ACTIVITIES
1. The 2008 FATF Typologies Report on Proliferation Financing provides a
starting point to assist both public and private sectors in understanding the threats
and situations where customers, transactions and other account activities may be
involved in proliferation financing. Since then, proliferators have developed more
sophisticated networks to hide such activities. Some of these recent proliferation
financing-related sanctions evasion techniques have been captured in the reports
submitted by the UN Panel of Experts (PoE) to relevant UNSC or UNSCR committees.
2. In addition to the FATF typologies and UN PoE reports, national authorities
and academic institutions have identified a number of situations below, which may
indicate possible proliferation financing activities. However, information contained
in this Annex is not uniquely determinative of proliferation financing, and
proliferation financing activities may share similar traits with money laundering
(especially trade-based money laundering) and terrorist financing activities.
A. Elements that may indicate proliferation financing
(a) Indicators of possible proliferation financing as mentioned in Annex 1 to the
2008 FATF Typologies Report on Proliferation Financing (with updated
order)”
(i) Transaction involves person or entity in foreign country of
proliferation concern.
(ii) Transaction involves person or entity in foreign country of diversion
concern.
(iii) The customer or counter-party or its address is similar to one of the
parties found on publicly available lists of “denied persons” or has a
history of export control contraventions.
(iv) Customer activity does not match business profile, or end-user
information does not match end-user’s business profile.
(v) A freight forwarding firm is listed as the product's final destination.
(vi) Order for goods is placed by firms or persons from foreign countries
other than the country of the stated end-user.
(vii) Transaction involves shipment of goods incompatible with the
technical level of the country to which it is being shipped, (e.g.
semiconductor manufacturing equipment being shipped to a country
that has no electronics industry).
(viii) Transaction involves possible shell companies (e.g. companies do not
have a high level of capitalisation or displays other shell company
indicators).
P.54 of the 2008 FATF Typologies Report.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 33
(ix) Transaction demonstrates links between’ representatives of
companies exchanging goods i.e. same owners or management.
(x) Circuitous route of shipment (if available) and/or circuitous route of
financial transaction.
(xi) Trade finance transaction involves shipment route (if available)
through country with weak export control laws or weak enforcement
of export control laws.
(xii) Transaction involves persons or companies (particularly trading
companies) located in countries with weak export control laws or
weak enforcement of export control laws.
(xiii) Transaction involves shipment of goods inconsistent with normal
geographic trade patterns (e.g. does the country involved normally
export/import good involved?).
(xiv) Transaction involves financial institutions with known deficiencies in
AML/CFT controls and/or domiciled in countries with weak export
control laws or weak enforcement of export control laws.
(xv) Based on the documentation obtained in the transaction, the declared
value of the shipment was obviously under-valued vis-a-vis the
shipping cost.
(xvi) Inconsistencies in information contained in trade documents and
financial flows, such as names, companies, addresses, final destination
etc.
(xvii) Pattern of wire transfer activity that shows unusual patterns or has no
apparent purpose.
(xviii) Customer vague/incomplete on information it provides, resistant to
providing additional information when queried.
(xix) New customer requests letter of credit transaction awaiting approval
of new account.
(xx) Wire instructions or payment from or due to parties not identified on
the original letter of credit or other documentation.
B. Additional potential indicators of sanctions evasion activity mentioned in
third-party reports (e.g. UN PoE Reports, academic research)
(i) Involvement of items controlled under WMD export control regimes
or national control regimes.
(ii) Involvement of a person connected with a country of proliferation
concern (e.g. a dual-national), and/or dealing with complex equipment
for which he/she lacks technical background.
(iii) Use of cash or precious metals (e.g. gold) in transactions for industrial
items.
(iv) Involvement of a small trading, brokering or intermediary company,
often carrying out business inconsistent with their normal business.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

34 |
(Vv)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
(ix)
(x)
(xi)
Involvement of a customer or counter-party, declared to be a
commercial business, whose transactions suggest they are acting as a
money-remittance business.
Transactions between companies on the basis of “ledger”
arrangements that obviate the need for international financial
transactions.
Customers or counterparties to transactions are linked (e.g. they share
a common physical address, IP address or telephone number, or their
activities may be coordinated).
Involvement of a university in a country of proliferation concern.
Description of goods on trade or financial documentation is non-
specific, innocuous or misleading.
Evidence that documents or other representations (e.g. relating to
shipping, customs, or payment) are fake or fraudulent.
Use of personal account to purchase industrial items.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 35
ANNEX B:
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
SUBJECT TO TARGETED FINANCIAL SANCTIONS
A. Introduction
1. A number of additional issues arise where a financial institution is
designated for the purpose of financial sanctions under United Nations (UN)
Security Council Resolutions (UNSCRs, or resolutions). This annex is intended for
competent authorities and focuses on the actions that should be undertaken for the
implementation of targeted financial sanctions.”
2. When implementing Recommendation 7, competent authorities may wish to
consider other regulatory measures within their legal framework to prevent asset
flight and overall risks on financial and payment systems and protect the position of
counter-parties acting in good faith.
3. Where implementing financial sanctions against a designated bank,
competent authorities should also ensure that the sanctions are implemented
effectively and robustly by preventing new business relationships. Within a
framework of robust controls competent authorities should seek to protect third
parties from the impact of sanctions to the extent possible, for example by making
use of exemptions that allow for payments due under contracts concluded before
the financial institution was designated. Such payments should, however, be closely
monitored.
4. The application of targeted financial sanctions affects the liquidity and/or
solvency of a designated financial institution, increases the risks of insolvency over
time, and raises immediate issues of prudential concern. In such circumstances, the
country’s insolvency or similar procedures, if applicable, should be applied in
accordance with national laws and subject to the requirements of financial
sanctions. This may involve the appointment of an administrator or auditor.
B. Application of targeted financial sanctions
5. Where a financial institution has been designated, competent authorities
should seek to implement targeted financial sanctions immediately. In so doing, they
should take a number of immediate actions:
6. Determine whether the designated financial institution has a presence in
their country. A financial institution may have a presence by being constituted
within that country, because it has a branch there or because it owns or controls an
entity in the country (e.g. a subsidiary). The authorities should also determine
50
It should be noted that this annex is applicable to the UN proliferation financing-related sanction
regimes against the DPRK and Iran. While the UNSCR 2231 (2015) has delisted 36 individuals
and entities specified in the Attachment to Annex B of the same resolution, there are currently
23 individuals and 61 entities remaining on the 2231 List. The 2231 List can be found here:
https://scsanctions.un.org/fop/fop?xml=htdocs/resources/xml/en/consolidated.xml&xslt=htdocs/r
esources/xsl/en/iran.xsl.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

36 |
whether the designated financial institution has accounts in a financial institution
located in its territory.
7. Consider whether the designation of the financial institution will cause
fit-and-proper concerns relating to the institution’s directors or senior management,
and consider whether the designation of the institution will cause other regulatory
concerns, such as systemic risks (e.g. other financial institutions suffering an
adverse effect) or other market impacts (e.g. a run of creditors on the institution or
potential disturbances in the payment systems). Such a determination may lead
authorities to consider the appointment of an administrator or auditor, or other
appropriate action.
8. Countries containing branches or subsidiaries of a designated financial
institution should communicate with each other to ensure that sanctions are being
applied in a consistent and effective manner across countries.
9. Wider cooperation between competent authorities regarding payments to
and from designated financial institutions that cross jurisdictional boundaries
should aim to ensure that permitted payments can move as efficiently as possible,
subject to proper controls, recording and monitoring and that any prohibited
payments are quickly identified and prevented. The cooperation between countries
may include coordinated exemption notifications to the UN Sanctions Committee.
C. Payments made by designated financial institutions
10. No payments should be made by a designated financial institution except
where authorised by competent authorities that are actually implementing the
targeted financial sanctions.
11. In determining authorisation on the basis of the relevant UNSCRs, competent
authorities should consider:
e what payments should in principle be authorised; and
e what safeguards should be built into the authorisation regime to ensure that
only permitted payments are made, including what type of monitoring and
scrutiny should be conducted.
(i) Safeguards
12. Competent authorities should put in place robust safeguards to ensure that
only permitted payments are made. This should include, at a minimum:
e pre-vetting of all payments made by the financial institution under
authorisation by competent authorities or, if legislation allows for it,
independent bodies, such as auditors, acting at the request of the competent
authorities and under their supervision;
e regular reporting by the _ financial institution, verified by the
administrator/auditor, if applicable, to the competent authority on all
payments made and received by the financial institution.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

(ii) | Payments due under prior contracts
13. Competent authorities should consider how to deal with payments due under
prior contracts. Annex B to UNSCR 2231 (2015) notes that the asset freeze
provisions shall not prevent a designated person or entity from making payments
due under contracts entered into prior to listing, where the relevant countries have
determined that the contract is not related to items, assistance or services
prohibited under the resolution and that the payment is not directly or indirectly
received by a designated person or entity. This can include the transfer of funds
between the head office, branches or accounts of the financial institution necessary
for such payments. Countries are required to notify the UN Security Council of their
intention to authorise payments due under prior contracts 10 working days before
issuing an authorisation. (See paragraph 6(d) of Annex B to the resolution.)
14. In order to prevent new financial business with a designated financial
institution, countries should not permit payments under discretionary facilities such
as overdrafts or revolving facilities, such that a designated financial institution
cannot continue to be a vehicle for future commercial contracts.
15. Competent authorities should consider whether prior contracts that have
been amended after the designation of the respective financial institution should be
treated as prior contracts for sanctions purposes (e.g. the renewal of a lease), or
whether the changes to the contract are sufficiently substantive that they should be
treated as new contracts. Competent authorities should be aware that third parties
may wish to consider alternative financing arrangements.
16. Where the designated financial institution has a branch, the competent
authority where the branch is located may allow the designated entity to transfer
funds between branches or offices in order to make payments due under prior
contract to third parties acting in good faith, on its behalf or on behalf of its head
office. In this case, the competent authority of the country where the branch is
located should exercise appropriate vigilance when granting such an authorisation.
(iii) Other payments: Basic and extraordinary expenses
17. Competent authorities may need to consider authorising certain basic and
extraordinary expenses that do not create new obligations but are necessary in
order to ensure an orderly wind down of the financial institution’s obligations under
prior contracts to third parties acting in good faith, including non-designated
account holders.
18. Basic expenses requests will require the absence of a negative decision by
the UN Security Council (for Iran)/Sanctions Committee (for DPRK), and
extraordinary expenses will require prior approval by the Security Council (for
Iran) /Sanctions Committee (for DPRK).
(a) Basic expenses
19. Both DPRK and Iran-related resolutions provide for authorisation that
freezing measures do not apply to funds, other financial assets or (economic)
resources that relevant countries have determined to be necessary for basic
expenses:
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

38 |
e For DPRK: OP 9(a) of UNSCR 1718 (2006) specifies that freezing measures
do not apply to financial or other assets or resources that relevant countries
have determined to be necessary for basic expenses, including payment for
foodstuffs, rent or mortgage, medicines and medical treatment, taxes,
insurance premiums, and public utility charges, or exclusively for payment of
reasonable professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses
associated.
e For Iran: paragraph 6(d)(i) of Annex B to UNSCR 2231 (2015) including e.g.
payment for foodstuffs, rent or mortgage, medicines and medical treatment,
taxes, insurance premiums, and public utility charges or exclusively for
payment of reasonable professional fees such as those for legal services.
(b) Extraordinary expenses
20. Both DPRK and Iran-related resolutions specify that the freezing measures
do not apply to funds, other financial assets or economic resources that relevant
countries have determined to be necessary for extraordinary expenses and that the
UN Security Council or Sanctions Committee has approved as such. (See OP 9(b) of
UNSCR 1718 (2006) for DPRK and paragraph 6(d)(ii) of Annex B to
UNSCR 2231 (2015) for Iran.)
21. As far as Iran is concerned, extraordinary expenses include inter alia any
expenses in connection with ancillary transactions of a subsidiary or a branch of the
financial institution not covered by paragraph 6(d) of Annex B to UNSCR 2231
(2015) that are necessary to ensure an orderly wind down of the institution’s
obligations under prior contracts to third parties acting in good faith or for expenses
necessary to ensure the protection of such third parties. Examples of such
extraordinary expenses might include:
e Expenses in connection with ancillary transactions that are necessary to
allow the financial institution to repatriate or transfer its assets within the
financial group or from other financial institutions (e.g., transactions to align
currency reserves in order to repatriate or transfer assets);
e Where appropriate, allowing a subsidiary to “set off’? against a parent
financial group’s frozen assets held by the subsidiary;
e Expenses in connection with certain foreign exchange transactions to allow
the financial institution to meet its obligations under prior contracts (e.g., to
allow for payment under prior contracts in the currency called for by the
contract at issue);
e The fees of an administrator or auditor.
D. Payments due to the designated financial institution
22. As far as Iran is concerned, allows payments to be made to the frozen
accounts of a designated person or entity provided that the payment is due under a
prior contract, agreement or obligation (see paragraph 6(d) of Annex B to
UNSCR 2231 (2015)).
23. In principle, competent authorities should permit these payments to be
made, as long as they are payments due under prior contracts, agreements or
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 39
obligations and do not create new obligations, as this will help the financial
institution to meet its prior obligations to third parties. However, competent
authorities will need to ensure that payments made to the financial institution are
properly frozen in the same way as the financial institution’s existing assets, and are
subject to close monitoring and scrutiny by the competent authorities.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

ANNEX C:
UN SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS (UNSCRS)
RELATING TO THE PREVENTION OF WMD PROLIFERATION
I. List of UNSCRs
Non-state Actors
Resolution Relevant Provisions
Resolution 1540 (2004) OP 2 and 3(d)
Successor resolutions Relevant Provisions
Resolution 1673 (2006) OP 1
Resolution 1810 (2008) OP 1
Resolution 1977 (2011) OP 1
Resolution 2325 (2016) OP 1, 7 and 12
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK)
Resolution Relevant Provisions
Resolution 1718 (2006) OP 8(a)(i),(ii), 8(b), 8(c) and 8(d), 9(a)-(c), 12(e)
Successor resolutions Relevant Provisions
Resolution 1874 (2009)
Resolution 2087 (2013)
Resolution 2094 (2013)
Resolution 2270 (2016)
Resolution 2321 (2016)
Resolution 2356 (2017)
Resolution 2371 (2017)
Resolution 2375 (2017)
OP 7, 9, 10, 18, 19 and 20
OP 5, 6 and 12, Annexes I and II
Preambular 6 and OP 7, 8, 11- 15, 20, 24, Annexes I and II
OP 6, 10, 12, 15, 16, 19, 20, 23, 29-31, 32-38, Annexes I, II and III
OP 3, 8, 9, 12, 16, 18, 20, 22, 23, 26, 28, 31-35, Annexes I and II
OP 3, Annexes I and II
OP 3, 8-14, 18, Annexes I and II
OP 3, 8, 13-16, 18, 19, Annexes I and II
Resolution 2397 (2017) OP 3-8, 11, 13-15, 17 Annexes I and II
Islamic Republic of Iran (Iran)
Resolution Relevant Provisions
Resolution 2231 (2015) OP 1, 6, 7, 11, 12, 14, 16, 21, 22;
Paragraphs 2, 4, 5 and 6 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) of Annex B
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 41
II. Financial provisions and their categorisation
Part II (a) General anti-proliferation
UNSCR | oP | Extract of Provision
Part II (a) General anti-proliferation
1540
(2004)
Decides also that all States, in accordance with their national procedures,
shall adopt and enforce appropriate effective laws which prohibit any
non-State actor to manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, transport,
transfer or use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and their means of
delivery, in particular for terrorist purposes, as well as attempts to engage in
any of the foregoing activities, participate in them as an accomplice, assist or
finance them
1540
(2004) 3(d)
Decides also that all States shall take and enforce effective measures to
establish domestic controls to prevent the proliferation of nuclear, chemical,
or biological weapons and their means of delivery, including by establishing
appropriate controls over related materials and to this end_ shall:
(d) Establish, develop, review and maintain appropriate effective
national export and trans-shipment controls over such items, including
appropriate laws and regulations to control export, transit, trans-
shipment and re-export and controls on providing funds and services
related to such export and trans-shipment such as financing, and
transporting that would contribute to proliferation, as well as
establishing end-user controls; and establishing and enforcing appropriate
criminal or civil penalties for violations of such export control laws and
regulations
1673
(2006)
Reiterates its decisions in and the requirements of resolution 1540 (2004)
and emphasises the importance for all States to implement fully that
resolution
1810
(2008)
Reiterates its decisions in and the requirements of resolution 1540 (2004)
and emphasises the importance for all States to implement fully that
resolution
1977
(2011)
PartII(a)Generalanti-proliferation
Reiterates its decisions in and the requirements of resolution 1540 (2004),
and re-emphasises the importance for all States to implement fully that
resolution
2325
(2016)
Reiterates its decisions in and the requirements of resolution 1540 (2004)
and re-emphasises the importance for all States to implement fully and
effectively that resolution
2325
(2016)
Calls upon States to take into account developments of the evolving
nature of risk of proliferation and rapid advances in science and
technology in their implementation of resolution of 1540 (2004)
2325
(2016)
12
Decides that the 1540 Committee shall continue to intensify its efforts to
promote the full implementation by all States of resolution 1540 (2004),
through its Programme of Work, which includes the compilation and general
examination of information on the status of States’ implementation of
resolution 1540 (2004) and addresses all aspects of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of
that resolution, particularly noting the need for more attention on:
enforcement measures; measures relating to biological, chemical and
nuclear weapons; proliferation finance measures; accounting for and
securing related materials; and national export and transhipment controls
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions: DPRK
UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
PartII(b)TargetedFinancialSanctions(DPRK)(R.7)
Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions (corresponds to Recommendation 7)
DPRK
1718
(2006) 8(d)
Decides that: (d) All Member States shall, in accordance with their respective
legal processes, freeze immediately the funds, other financial assets and
economic resources which are on their territories at the date of the
adoption of this resolution or at any time thereafter, that are owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by the persons or entities designated by
the Committee or by the Security Council as being engaged in or providing
support for, including through other illicit means, DPRK’s nuclear-related,
other weapons of mass destruction-related and ballistic missile related
programmes, or by persons or entities acting on their behalf or at their
direction, and ensure that any funds, financial assets or economic
resources are prevented from being made available by their nationals
or by any persons or entities within their territories, to or for the
benefit of such persons or entities
1718
(2006)
9(a)-
(c)2
Decides that the provisions of paragraph 8 (d) above do not apply to
financial or other assets or resources that have been determined by relevant
States:
(a) To be necessary for basic expenses, including payment for foodstuffs,
rent or mortgage, medicines and medical treatment, taxes, insurance
premiums, and public utility charges, or exclusively for payment of
reasonable professional fees and reimbursement of incurred expenses
associated with the provision of legal services, or fees or service charges, in
accordance with national laws, for routine holding or maintenance of frozen
funds, other financial assets and economic resources, after notification by
the relevant States to the Committee of the intention to authorise, where
appropriate, access to such funds, other financial assets and economic
resources and in the absence of a negative decision by the Committee within
five working days of such notification;
(b) To be necessary for extraordinary expenses, provided that such
determination has been notified by the relevant States to the Committee and
has been approved by the Committee; or
(c) To be subject of a judicial, administrative or arbitral lien or
judgement, in which case the funds, other financial assets and economic
resources may be used to satisfy that lien or judgement provided that the
lien or judgement was entered prior to the date of the present resolution, is
not for the benefit of a person referred to in paragraph 8(d) above or an
individual or entity identified by the Security Council or the Committee, and
has been notified by the relevant States to the Committee
1718
(2006)
12
Decides to establish, in accordance with rule 28 of its provisional rules of
procedure, a Committee of the Security Council consisting of all the
members ofthe Council, to undertake the following tasks: ...
(e) To designate additional individuals and entities subject to the
measures imposed by paragraphs 8(d) and (e) above
51
Provides exceptions from assets freeze.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 43
OP Extract of Provision
(con’t) Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions (corresponds to Recommendation 7)
752
Calls upon all Member States to implement their obligations pursuant to
resolution 1718 (2006), including with respect to designations made by
the Committee established pursuant to resolution 1718 (2006) (“the
Committee”) pursuant to the statement of its President of 13 April 2009
(S/PRST/2009/7)
5(a)%3
Recalls the measures imposed by paragraph 8 of resolution 1718 (2006), as
modified by resolution 1874 (2009), and determines that: (a) The measures
specified in paragraph 8 (d) of resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply to
the individuals and entities listed in Annex I and II ... ; and, (b) The
measures imposed in paragraph 8 (a), 8(b) and 8 (c) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply to the items in
INFCIRC/254/Rev.11/Part 1 and INFCIRC/254/Rev.8/Part 2 and
$/2012/947
Preambular
6
Welcoming the Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF) new Recommendation
7 on targeted financial sanctions related to proliferation, and urging
Member States to apply FATF’s_ [Interpretive] Note to
Recommendation 7 and related guidance papers for effective
implementation of targeted financial sanctions related to proliferation
Q54
Decides further that measures specified in paragraph 8 (d) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply also to the individuals and entities
listed in annexes I and II of this resolution and to any individuals or
entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, and to entities
owned or controlled by them, including through illicit means, and decides
further that the measures specified in paragraph 8 (d) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply to any individuals or entities acting
on the behalf or at the direction of the individuals and entities that have
already been designated, to entities owned or controlled by them,
including through illicit means
19055
Decides that the measures. specified in paragraph 8(d) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply also to the individuals and entities
listed in Annex I and II of this resolution and to any individuals or
entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, and to entities owned
or controlled by them, including through illicit means
UNSCR |
DPRK
1874
(2009)
>
=|
i=)
Nd)
= | 2087
= | (2013)
oS
on
Qu
eg
“
6
S| 2094
= | (2013)
SW)
c
3
=|
is}
=
[ak
an)
s
® | 2094
= | (2013)
i
2
re
i
is}
Qu
2270
(2016)
2270
(2016)
1256
Affirms that “economic resources,” as referred to in paragraph 8(d) of
resolution 1718 (2006), includes assets of every kind, whether tangible
or intangible, movable or immovable, actual or potential, which
potentially may be used to obtain funds, goods, or services, such as vessels
(including maritime vessels)
52
53
54
55
56
Extends the TFS of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(d).
Extends the TFS of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(d).
Extends the TFS of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(d).
Extends the list of person/entity subject to TFS of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(d).
Extends the definition of “economic resources” to cover vessels; and adds the new elements of
“actual or potential”.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

PartII(b)TargetedFinancialSanctions(DPRK)(R.7)(con't)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions (corresponds to Recommendation 7)
DPRK
2270
(2016)
15957
Underscores that, as a consequence of implementing the obligations
imposed in paragraph 8(d) of resolution 1718 (2006) and paragraphs 8
and 11 of resolution 2094 (2013), all Member States shall close the
representative offices of designated entities and prohibit such entities,
as well as individuals or entities acting for or on their behalf, directly or
indirectly, from participating in joint ventures or any other business
arrangements, and underscores that if a representative of such an office is a
DPRK national, then States are required to expel the individual from their
territories for the purpose of repatriation to the DPRK consistent with
applicable national and international law, pursuant to and consistent with
paragraph 10 of resolution 2094 (2013)
2270
(2016)
1658
Notes that the DPRK frequently uses front companies, shell companies,
joint ventures and complex, opaque ownership structures for the
purpose of violating measures imposed in relevant Security Council
resolutions, and, in this regard, directs the Committee, with the support of
the Panel, to identify individuals and entities engaging in such practices
and, if appropriate, designate them to be subject to the measures imposed
in resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013) and
this resolution
2270
(2016)
2359
Recalls that the Committee has designated the DPRK firm Ocean
Maritime Management (OMM), notes that the vessels specified in Annex
III of this resolution are economic resources controlled or operated by
OMM and therefore subject to the asset freeze imposed in
paragraph 8 (d) of resolution 1718 (2006), and underscores that Member
States are required to implement the relevant provisions of that resolution
37
58
59
Extends the scope of sanctions against designated persons/entities to include closing of
representative offices of designated entities and prohibiting joint ventures and business
arrangements with designated entities.
Relating to designation.
Extends the scope of assets freeze to include certain vessels.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

OP Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions (corresponds to Recommendation 7)
32.60
Decides that the asset freeze imposed by paragraph 8 (d) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply to all the funds, other financial
assets and economic resources outside of the DPRK that are owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by entities of the Government of the
DPRK or the Worker's Party of Korea, or by individuals or entities
acting on their behalf or at their direction, or by entities owned or
controlled by them, that the State determines are associated with the
DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programs or other activities prohibited
by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013) or
this resolution, decides further that all States except the DPRK shall ensure
that any funds, financial assets or economic resources are prevented
from being made available by their nationals or by any individuals or
entities within their territories, to or for the benefit of such
individuals or entities, or individuals or entities acting on their
behalf or at their direction, or entities owned or controlled by them,
and decides that these measures shall not apply with respect to funds,
other financial assets and economic resources that are required to carry
out activities of the DPRK’s missions to the United Nations and its
specialised agencies and related organisations or other diplomatic and
consular missions of the DPRK, and to any funds, other financial assets and
economic resources that the Committee determined in advance on a case-
by-case basis are required for the delivery of humanitarian assistance,
denuclearisation or any other purpose consistent with the objectives of
this resolution
38
Recalls that the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has called upon
countries to apply enhanced due _ diligence and_ effective
countermeasure to protect their jurisdictions from the DPRK’s illicit
financial activity, and calls upon Member States to apply the FATF
Recommendation 7, its Interpretive Note, and related guidance to
effectively implement targeted financial sanctions related to
proliferation
UNSCR |
DPRK
LS
f=
©
Ne)
5
&
oS
eS| 2270
2 | (2016)
—_
i”)
f=
©
SW)
o
3
f=
©
5
[ak
ao)
s
i)
jot)
fom
is")
am
eS
~
= | 2270
me | (2016)
2321
(2016)
Decides that the measures specified in paragraph 8(d) of resolution
1718 (2006) shall apply also to the individuals and entities listed in
annex I and II of this resolution and to any individuals or entities
acting on their behalf or at their direction, and to entities owned or
controlled by them, including through illicit means ...
60
61
Extends the category of persons and entities subject to assets freeze to cover those relating to the
Government of the DPRK or the Worker’s Party of Korea; Provides exemptions from assets freeze.
Extends the list of designated persons and entities.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

46 |
PartII(b)TargetedFinancialSanctions(DPRK)(R.7)(con’t)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
(con’t)Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions (corresponds to Recommendation 7)
DPRK
2321
(2016)
1262
Decides that the Committee, if it has information that provides reasonable
grounds to believe that vessels are or have been related to nuclear- or
ballistic missile-related programmes or _ activities prohibited by
resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013),
2270 (2016) or this resolution, may require any or all of the following
measures with respect to vessels it designates pursuant to this paragraph:
.. (d) a vessel designated by the Committee shall be subject to the
asset freeze imposed in paragraph 8 (d) of resolution 1718 (2006)
2356
(2017)
363
Recalls the measures imposed by paragraph 8 of
resolution 1718 (2006), as modified by subsequent resolutions, and
decides that the measures specified in paragraph 8(d) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply to the individuals and entities
listed in Annex I and II of this resolution and to any individuals or
entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, and to entities
owned or controlled by them, including through illicit means ...
2371
(2017)
364
Decides that the measures specified in paragraph 8(d) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply also to the individuals and entities
listed in Annex I and II of this resolution and to any individuals or
entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, and to entities
owned or controlled by them, including through illicit means ...
2371
(2017)
18
Decides that Member States shall report to the Security Council within
ninety days of the adoption of this resolution, and thereafter upon
request by the Committee, on concrete measures they have taken in order
to implement effectively the provisions of this resolution, requests the
Panel of Experts, in cooperation with other UN sanctions monitoring
groups, to continue its efforts to assist Member States in preparing and
submitting such reports in a timely manner
2375
(2017)
365
Decides that the measures specified in paragraph 8(d) of
resolution 1718 (2016) shall apply also to the individual and entities
listed in Annex I and II of this resolution and to any individuals or
entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, and to entities
owned or controlled by them, including through illicit means ...
62
63
64
65
Relating to designation of vessels.
Extends the list of designated persons and entities.
Extends the list of designated persons and entities.
Extends the list of designated persons and entities.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 47
| OP Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions (corresponds to Recommendation 7)
R66
Calls upon all States to cooperate with the inspections pursuant to
paragraph 7 above, and, if the flag State does not consent to inspection
on the high seas, decides that the flag State shall direct the vessel to
proceed to an appropriate and convenient port for the required
inspection by the local authorities pursuant to paragraph18 of
resolution 2270 (2016), and decides further that, if a flag State neither
consents to inspection on the high seas nor directs the vessel to
proceed to an appropriate and convenient port for the required
inspection, or if the vessel refuses to comply with flag State direction to
permit inspection on the high seas or to proceed to such a port, then the
Committee shall consider designating the vessel for the measures
imposed in paragraph 8(d) of resolution 1718 (2006) and
paragraph 12 of resolution 2321 (2016) and the flag State shall
immediately deregister that vessel provided that such designation has
been made by the Committee
19
Decides that Member States shall report to the Security Council
within ninety days of the adoption of this resolution, and thereafter
upon request by the Committee, on concrete measures they have taken
in order to implement effectively the provisions of this resolution,
requests the Panel of Experts, in cooperation with other UN sanctions
monitoring groups, to continue its efforts to assist Member States in
preparing and submitting such reports in a timely manner
367
Decides that the measures specified in paragraph 8(d) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall apply also to individuals and entities
listed in Annex I and II of this resolution and to any individuals or
entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, and to entities
owned or controlled by them, including through illicit means ...
UNSCR
DPRK
~ 2375
= 2017)5 (
2
>
eS
eS
~
us
a
”
<
«
—_
iS)
5 2375
= (2017)
3
¢
(3°)
i=
<>
Ss
<>)
a 2397
po (2017)
(5°)
i
2
.
fom
9°)
uy
2397
(2017)
15
Decides that, if a Member State has information regarding the
number, name, and registry of vessels encountered in its territory
or on the high seas that are designated by the Security Council or
by the Committee as subject to the asset freeze imposed by
paragraph 8(d) of resolution 1718 (2006), the various measures
imposed by paragraph 12 of resolution 2321 (2016), the port entry ban
imposed by paragraph 6 of resolution 2371(2017), or relevant
measures in this resolution, then the Member State shall notify the
Committee of this information and what measures were taken to
carry out an inspection, an asset freeze and impoundment or other
appropriate action as authorised by the relevant provisions of
resolution 1718(2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013),
2270 (2016), 2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), 2371 (2017), 2375 (2017), or
this resolution
66
67
Relating to designation of vessels.
Extends the list of designated persons and entities.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

_io)
PartII(b)TFS(DPRK)(R.7)(con’t)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions (corresponds to Recommendation 7)
DPRK
Decides that Member States shall report to the Security Council
within ninety days of the adoption of this resolution, and thereafter
upon request by the Committee, on concrete measures they have taken
in order to implement effectively the provisions of this resolution,
requests the Panel of Experts, in cooperation with other UN sanctions
2397 17 monitoring groups, to continue its efforts to assist Member States in
(2017) preparing and submitting such reports in a timely manner
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 49
Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions: Iran
OP Extract of Provision
Part II (b) Targeted Financial Sanctions (corresponds to Recommendation 7)
768
Decides, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, that,
upon receipt by the Security Council of the report from the IAEA described
in paragraph 5: (a) The provisions of resolutions 1696 (2006),
1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), 1835 (2008), 1929 (2010) and
2224 (2015) shall be terminated
Annex B
Para.6(c)
For eight years after the JCPOA Adoption Day or until the date on which
the IAEA submits a report confirming the Broader Conclusion, whichever is
earlier, continue to freeze the funds, other financial assets and
economic resources which are on their territories at the date of
adoption of the JCPOA, and freeze the funds, other financial assets and
economic resources which are on their territories at any time
thereafter, that are owned or controlled by the individuals and
entities that were specified on the list established and maintained by
the Committee pursuant to resolution 1737 (2006) as of the date of
adoption of the new resolution, with the exception of those
individuals and entities specified in Attachment hereto, or that may
be de-listed by the Security Council, and freeze those of additional
individuals and entities that may be designated by the Security
Council as: having engaged in, directly associated with or provided
support for Iran’s proliferation-sensitive nuclear activities undertaken
contrary to Iran’s commitments in the JCPOA or the development of
nuclear weapon delivery systems, including through the involvement in
procurement of prohibited items, goods, equipment, materials and
technology specified in this statement; having assisted designated
individuals or entities in evading or acting inconsistently with the
JCPOA or the new resolution; having acted on behalf or at the direction
of designated individuals or entities; or having been owned or controlled
by designated individuals or entities, including through illicit means
UNSCR |
Iran
2231
(2015)
5
=
i)
is)
=
ry
=|
=
—_
i)
;& 2231
= | (2015)
3
=|
©
=|
os
s
£
o
po
ise)
i
5
re
hom
©
Cu
2231
(2015)
Annex B
Para.6(d)
... In addition, this provision shall not prevent a designated individual or
entity from making payment due under a contract entered into prior
to the listing of such individual or entity, provided that the relevant
States have determined that the contract is not related to any of the
prohibited items, materials, equipment, goods, technologies, assistance,
training, financial assistance, investment, brokering or services referred to
in this statement; the payment is not directly or indirectly received by an
individual or entity subject to the measures in this paragraph; and after
notification by the relevant States to the Security Council of the intention to
make or receive such payments or to authorise, where appropriate, the
unfreezing of funds, other financial assets or economic resources for this
purpose, ten working days prior to such authorisation
68
Terminates the Iran-related TFS/PF provisions that were based on UNSCR 1737 (2006) and its
successor resolutions.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

50 |
Part II (c) Other measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to DPRKfinancial transactions or provision offinancial services)
PartII(c)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
Part II (c) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to DPRKfinancial transactions or provision offinancial services)
Decides that the measures in paragraph 8(b) of resolution 1718 (2006) shall
1874 969 also apply to all arms and related materiel, as well as to financial
(2009) transactions, technical training, advice, services or assistance related to the
provision, manufacture, maintenance or use of such arms or materiel
Decides that the measures in paragraph 8(a) of resolution 1718 (2006) shall
also apply to all arms and related materiel, as well as to financial
transactions, technical training, advice, services or assistance related to the
provision, manufacture, maintenance or use of such arms, except for small
107° | arms and light weapons and their related materiel, and calls upon States to
exercise vigilance over the direct or indirect supply, sale or transfer to
the DPRK of small arms or light weapons, and further decides that States shall
notify the Committee at least five days prior to selling, supplying or
transferring small arms or light weapons to the DPRK
1874
(2009)
Calls upon Member States, in addition to implementing their obligations
pursuant to paragraphs 8(d) ...of resolution 1718 (2006), to prevent the
provision of financial services or the transfer to, through, or from their
territory, or to or by their nationals or entities organised under their laws
(including branches abroad), or persons or financial institutions in their
territory, of any financial or other assets or resources that could
1874 18 contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear-related, ballistic missile-related, or
(2009) other weapons of mass destruction-related programmes or activities,
including by freezing any financial or other assets or resources on their
territories or that hereafter come within their territories, or that are
subject to their jurisdiction or that hereafter become subject to their
jurisdiction, that are associated with such programmes or activities and
applying enhanced monitoring to prevent all such transactions in accordance
with their national authorities and legislation
Calls upon all Member States and international financial and credit
institutions not to enter into new commitments for grants, financial
assistance, or concessional loans to the DPRK except for humanitarian and
19 developmental purposes directly addressing the needs of the civilian
population, or the promotion of denuclearisation, and also calls upon States to
exercise enhanced vigilance with a view to reducing current
commitments
1874
(2009)
Recalls the measures imposed by paragraph 8 of resolution 1718 (2006), as
modified by resolution 1874 (2009), and determines that: ... (b) The measures
5(b)7! | imposed in paragraph 8 (a), 8 (b) and 8 (c) of resolution 1718 (2006) shall
apply __ to the items in INFCIRC/254/Rev.11/Part 1 and
INFCIRC/254/Rev.8/Part 2 and S/2012/947
2087
(2013)
69
70
71
Extends the prohibitions of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(b) to financial transactions, services or
assistance.
Extends the prohibitions of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(a) to financial transactions, services or
assistance.
Extends the items to which the measures of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(a) to (c) apply.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 51
Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (c) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to DPRK financial transactions or provision offinancial services)
Reaffirms that the measures imposed in paragraph 8 (c) of
resolution 1718 (2006) apply to items prohibited by paragraph 8 (a)(i),
8 (a) (ii) of resolution 1718 (2006) and paragraphs 9 and 10 of resolution
1874 (2009), decides that the measures imposed in paragraph 8 (c) of
resolution 1718 (2006) also apply to paragraphs 20 and 22 of this
resolution, and notes that these measures apply also to brokering or
other intermediary services, including when arranging for the
provision, maintenance or use of prohibited items in other States or the
supply, sale or transfer to or exports from other States
Decides that Member States shall, in addition to implementing their
obligations pursuant to paragraphs 8 (d) and (e)_ of
resolution 1718 (2006), prevent the provision of financial services
or the transfer to, through, or from their territory, or to or by their
nationals or entities organised under their laws (including branches
abroad), or persons or financial institutions in their territory, of any
financial or other assets or resources, including bulk cash, that could
contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes, or
other activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009),
2087 (2013), or this resolution, or to the evasion of measures imposed
by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874(2009), 2087 (2013), or this
resolution, including by freezing any financial or other assets or
resources on their territories or that hereafter come within their
territories, or that are subject to their jurisdiction or that hereafter
become subject to their jurisdiction, that are associated with such
programmes or activities and applying enhanced monitoring to
prevent all such transactions in accordance with their national
authorities and legislation
UNSCR | OP
S
=|
i=)
2
oS
a4
Qu
Ey: 2094 ”
E (2013)
=
o
fo
=)
fom
Qn
Ss
3
=|
is)
E
[kay
am)
<>)
“
is")
or
>
§=
f= 2094—_
i)
< (2013) 1
“
o
Som
=)
“
ise)
i)
=
hom
o
gS
—_
©
2
~
S 2094Qu 73
(2013) 20
Decides that the measures imposed in paragraphs 8(a) and (b) of
resolution 1718 (2006) shall also apply to the items, materials,
equipment, goods and technology listed in annex III of this resolution.
72
73
Extends the items to which the measures of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(c) apply.
Extends the items to which the measures of UNSCR 1718 (2006), OP 8(a) and 8(b) apply.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

aN
PartII(c)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)(con’t)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
(con’t) Part II (c) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to DPRKfinancial transactions or provision offinancial services)
Decides that the measures in paragraph 8 (a) of resolution 1718 (2006)
shall also apply to all arms and related materiel, including small arms
and light weapons and their related materiel, as well as to financial
2270 6 transactions, technical training, advice, services or assistance related to
(2016) .s
the provision, manufacture, maintenance or use of such arms and related
materiel
Clarifies that the prohibitions contained in paragraph 11 of
2371 13 resolution 2094 (2013) apply to clearing of funds through all Member
(2017) States’ territories
Clarifies that companies’ performing financial services
commensurate with those provided by banks are considered
2371 14 financial institutions for the purposes of implementing paragraph 11 of
(2017) resolution 2094 (2013), paragraphs 33 and 34 of
resolution 2270 (2016), and paragraph 33 of resolution 2321 (2016)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

Part II (c) Other measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to Iran financial transactions or provision offinancial services)
UNSCR OP Extract of Provision
Part II (c) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to Iran financial transactions or provision offinancial services)
2231
(2015)
PartII(c)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(Iran)
Annex B
Para 2
All States may participate in and permit the following activities
provided that approval is provided in advance, on a case-by-case
basis, by the Security Council:
(a) the supply, sale or transfer directly or indirectly from their
territories, or by their nationals or using their flag vessels or aircraft to,
or for the use in or benefit of, Iran, and whether or not originating in
their territories, of all items, materials, equipment, goods and
technology set out in %INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1 and
INFCIRC/254/Rev.9/Part 2 (or the most recent versions of these
documents, as updated by the Security Council), as well as any further
items if the State determines that they could contribute to reprocessing
or enrichment-related or heavy water-related activities inconsistent
with the JCPOA;
(b) the provision to Iran of any technical assistance or training,
financial assistance, investment, brokering or other services, and
the transfer of financial resources or services, related to the supply,
sale, transfer, manufacture or use of the items, materials, equipment,
goods and technology described in subparagraph (a) above; and
(c) acquisition by Iran of an interest in a commercial activity in another
State involving uranium mining or production or use of nuclear
materials and technology as listed in INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1, and
such investment in territories under their jurisdiction by Iran, its
nationals, and entities incorporated in Iran or subject to its jurisdiction,
or by individuals or entities acting on their behalf or at their direction,
or by entities owned or controlled by them, except that approval in
advance by the Security Council shall not be required for the supply,
sale, or transfer to Iran of equipment covered by B.1 of
INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1 when such equipment is for light water
reactors, low-enriched uranium covered by A.1.2 of
INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1 when it is incorporated in assembled
nuclear fuel elements for such reactors, as well as items, materials,
equipment, goods and technology set out in INFCIRC/254/Rev. 9/Part
2 only when for exclusive use in light water reactors
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

54 |
PartII(c)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(Iran)(con't)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
(Con’t) Part II (c) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to Iran financial transactions or provision offinancial services)
2231
(2015)
Annex B
Para 2
(con't)
For any items, materials, equipment, goods and technology that are
approved by the Security Council pursuant to subparagraph (a) above,
or are supplied, sold, or transferred subject to the exception stated
above, States are to ensure that: (a) the requirements, as appropriate,
of the Guidelines as set out in the referenced INFCIRC have been met;
(b) they have obtained and are in a position to exercise effectively a
right to verify the end-use and end-use location of any supplied item;
(c) they notify the Security Council within ten days of the supply, sale
or transfer; and d) in the case of supplied items, materials, equipment,
goods and technology listed in the referenced INFCIRCs, they also
notify the IAEA within ten days of the supply, sale or transfer.
And except also that approval in advance by the Security Council is not
required for the supply, sale, or transfer of items, materials, equipment,
goods and technology, and the provision of any related technical
assistance, training, financial assistance, investment, brokering or other
services, that is directly related to the necessary modification of two
cascades at the Fordow facility for stable isotope production, the export
of Iran’s enriched uranium in excess of 300 kilograms in return for
natural uranium, and the modernisation of the Arak reactor based on
the agreed conceptual design and, subsequently, on the agreed final
design of such reactor, provided that Member States ensure that: (a) all
such activities are undertaken strictly in accordance with the JCPOA;
(b) they notify the Security Council and Joint Commission ten days in
advance of such activities; (c) the requirements, as appropriate, of the
Guidelines as set out in the referenced INFCIRC have been met; (d) they
have obtained and are in a position to exercise effectively a right to
verify the end-use and end-use location of any supplied item; and (e) in
case of supplied items, materials, equipment, goods and technology
listed in the referenced INFCIRCs, they also notify the IAEA within ten
days of the supply, sale or transfers.
This paragraph shall apply until the date ten years after JCPOA
Adoption Day, as defined in the JCPOA, except if the IAEA submits a
report confirming the Broader Conclusion before that date, then the
requirement to obtain approval in advance by the Security Council shall
be suspended immediately and, beginning on the date of this
suspension, the exceptions provided for in this paragraph shall
continue to apply and all States may participate in and permit the
activities set forth in this paragraph if they notify the Security Council
and the Joint Commission at least ten working days in advance of each
such activity on a case-by-case basis.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

UNSCR OP Extract of Provision
(Con’t) Part II (c) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to Iran financial transactions or provision offinancial services)
All States may participate in and permit the activities described
below provided that the Security Council decides in advance on a
case-by-case basis to permit such activity: ...
(a) the supply, sale or transfer directly or indirectly from their
territories, or by their nationals or using their flag vessels or aircraft to
or from Iran, or for the use in or benefit of Iran, and whether or not
originating in their territories, of all items, materials, equipment, goods
and technology set out in S/2015/546 and of any items, materials,
equipment, goods and technology that the State determines could
contribute to the development of nuclear weapon delivery systems;
and
(b) the provision to Iran of any technology or technical assistance or
2231 AnnexB | training, financial assistance, investment, brokering or other
(2015) Para 4 services, and the transfer of financial resources or services, or
Iran’s acquisition of an interest in any commercial activity in
another State, related to the supply, sale, transfer, manufacture or
use of the items, materials, equipment, goods and technology
described in subparagraph a of this paragraph or related to the
activities described in paragraph 3.
provided that in the event of an approval by the Security Council: (a) the
contract for delivery of such items or assistance include appropriate
end-user guarantees; and (b) Iran commit not to use such items for
development of nuclear weapon delivery systems.
This paragraph shall apply until the date eight years after the JCPOA
Adoption Day or until the date on which the IAEA submits a report
confirming the Broader Conclusion, whichever is earlier.
All States may participate in and permit, provided that the Security
Council decides in advance on a case-by-case basis to approve: the
supply, sale or transfer directly or indirectly from or through their
territories, or by their nationals or individuals subject to their
jurisdiction, or using their flag vessels or aircraft, and whether or not
originating in their territories, to Iran, or for the use in or benefit of
Iran, of any battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, large calibre
artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles
or missile systems, as defined for the purpose of the United Nations
Register of Conventional Arms, or related materiel, including spare
parts, and the provision to Iran by their nationals or from or through
their territories of technical training, financial resources or services,
advice, other services or assistance related to the supply, sale,
transfer, manufacture, maintenance, or use of arms and related
materiel described in this subparagraph.
PartII(c)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(Iran)(con't)
2231 Annex B
(2015) Para 5
This paragraph shall apply until the date five years after the JCPOA
Adoption Day or until the date on which the IAEA submits a report
confirming the Broader Conclusion, whichever is earlier.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

Part II (d) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to opening of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures, opening of accounts, etc.)
(DPRK only)
UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
Part II (d) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to opening of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures, opening of accounts, etc.)
DPRK
Calls upon States to take appropriate measures to prohibit in their
territories the opening of new _ branches, _ subsidiaries, or
representative offices of DPRK banks, and also calls upon States to
prohibit DPRK banks from establishing new joint ventures and from
taking an ownership interest in or establishing or maintaining
2094 12 correspondent relationships with banks in their jurisdiction to prevent
(2013) the provision of financial services if they have information that provides
reasonable grounds to believe that these activities could contribute to the
DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes, or other activities
prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), and this
resolution, or to the evasion of measures imposed _ by
resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or this resolution.
Calls upon States to take appropriate measures to prohibit financial
institutions within their territories or under their jurisdiction from
opening representative offices or subsidiaries or banking accounts in
13 the DPRK if they have information that provides reasonable grounds to
believe that such financial services could contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear
or ballistic missile programmes, and other activities prohibited by
resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), and this resolution.
2094
(2013)
PartII(d)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)
Decides that States shall prohibit in their territories the opening and
operation of new branches, subsidiaries, and representative offices of
DPRK banks, decides further that States shall prohibit financial
institutions within their territories or subject to their jurisdiction from
establishing new joint ventures and from taking an ownership
2270 33 interest in or establishing or maintaining correspondent relationship
(2016) with DPRK banks, unless such transactions have been approved by the
Committee in advance, and decides that States shall take the necessary
measures to close such existing branches, subsidiaries and
representative offices, and also to terminate such joint ventures,
ownership interests and correspondent banking relationships with
DPRK banks within ninety days from the adoption of this resolution
Decides that States shall prohibit financial institutions within their
2270 34 territories or subject to their jurisdiction from opening new
(2016) representative offices or subsidiaries, branches or banking accounts
in the DPRK
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (d) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to opening of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures, opening of accounts, etc.)
DPRK
Decides that States shall take the necessary measures to close existing
representative offices, subsidiaries or banking accounts in the DPRK
within ninety days, if the State concerned has credible information that
provides reasonable grounds to believe that such financial services could
contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes, or other
activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013),
2270 35 2094 (2013) or this resolution, and decides further that this provision shall not
(2016) apply if the Committee determines on a case-by-case basis that such offices,
subsidiaries or accounts are required for the delivery of humanitarian
assistance or the activities of diplomatic missions in the DPRK pursuant to the
Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations or the activities of the United
Nations or its specialised agencies or related organisations, or for any other
purposes consistent with resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013),
2094 (2013) or this resolution
Decides that all States shall take steps to limit the number of bank accounts to
16 one per DPRK diplomatic mission and consular post, and one per
accredited DPRK diplomat and consular officer, at banks in their territory
2321
(2016)
Decides that Member States shall take the necessary measures to close existing
representative offices, subsidiaries or banking accounts in the DPRK
within 90 days, unless the Committee determines on a case-by-case basis that
2321 31 such offices, subsidiaries or accounts are required for the delivery of
(2016) humanitarian assistance or the activities of diplomatic missions in the DPRK or
the activities of the United Nations or its specialised agencies or related
organisations or any other purpose consistent with the objectives of this
resolution
Decides that States shall prohibit, by their nationals or in their territories,
the opening of new joint ventures or cooperative entities with DPRK
2371 12 entities or individuals, or the expansion of existing joint ventures through
(2017) additional investments, whether or not acting for or on behalf of the
government of the DPRK, unless such joint ventures or cooperative entities
have been approved by the Committee in advance on a case-by-case basis
Decides that States shall prohibit, by their nationals or in their territories, the
opening, maintenance, and operation of all joint ventures or cooperative
entities, new and existing, with DPRK entities or individuals, whether or
not acting for or on behalf of the government of the DPRK, unless such joint
ventures or cooperative entities, in particular those that are non-commercial,
public utility infrastructure projects not generating profit, have been approved
by the Committee in advance on a case-by-case basis, further decides that States
2375 18 shall close any such existing joint venture or cooperative entity within
(2017) 120 days of the adoption of this resolution if such joint venture or cooperative
entity has not been approved by the Committee on a case-by-case basis, and
States shall close any such existing joint venture or cooperative entity within
120 days after the Committee has denied a request for approval, and decides
that this provision shall not apply with respect to existing China-DPRK
hydroelectric power infrastructure projects and the Russia-DPRK-Rajin-Khasan
port and rail project solely to expert Russia-origin coal as permitted by
paragraph 8 of resolution 2371 (2017)
PartII(d)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)(con't)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

58 |
Part II (e) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to the use and transfer of cash; relevant to banks and MVTS institutions)
(DPRK only)
PartII(e)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)
UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
Part II (e) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to the use and transfer of cash; relevant to banks and MVTS institutions)
DPRK
Deplores the violations of the measures imposed in resolution 1718 (2006) and
1874 (2009), including the use of bulk cash to evade sanctions, underscores its
concern over the supply, sale or transfer to or from the DPRK or through States’
territories of any item that could contribute to activities prohibited by resolutions
1718 (2006) or 1874 (2009) and the importance of appropriate action by States in
12 | this regard, calls on States to exercise vigilance and restraint regarding the entry into
or transit through their territories of individuals working on behalf or at the direction
of a designated individual or entity, directs the Committee to review reported
violations and take action as appropriate, including through designating entities and
individuals that have assisted the evasion of sanctions or in violating the provisions of
resolutions 1718 (2006) and 1874 (2009)
2087
(2013)
Decides that Member States shall, in addition to implementing their obligations
pursuant to paragraphs 8 (d) and (e) of resolution 1718 (2006), prevent the
provision of financial services or the transfer to, through, or from their territory,
or to or by their nationals or entities organised under their laws (including branches
abroad), or persons or financial institutions in their territory, of any financial or
other assets or resources, including bulk cash, that could contribute to the DPRK’s
nuclear or ballistic missile programmes, or other activities prohibited by resolutions
11 | 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or this resolution, or to the evasion of
measures imposed by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or this
resolution, including by freezing any financial or other assets or resources on
their territories or that hereafter come within their territories, or that are subject to
their jurisdiction or that hereafter become subject to their jurisdiction, that are
associated with such programmes or activities and applying enhanced monitoring
to prevent all such transactions in accordance with their national authorities and
legislation
2094
(2013)
Expresses concern that transfers to the DPRK of bulk cash may be used to evade
the measures imposed in resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), and
this resolution, and clarifies that all States shall apply the measures set forth in
paragraph 11 of this resolution to the transfers of cash, including through cash
couriers, transiting to and from the DPRK so as to ensure such transfers of bulk
cash do not contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes, or other
2094 14 activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or this
(2013) resolution, or to the evasion of measures imposed by resolutions 1718 (2006),
1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or this resolution including through gold couriers,
transiting to and from the DPRK so as to ensure such transfers of gold do not
contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programs, or other activities
prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013) or
this resolution, or to the evasion of measures imposed by resolutions 1718
(2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013) or this resolution
Expresses concern that transfers to the DPRK of gold may be used to evade the
2270 37 | Measures imposed in resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013),
(2016) 2094 (2013) and this resolution, and clarifies that all States shall apply the measures
set forth in paragraph 11 of resolution 2094 (2013) to the transfers of gold
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
(con’t) Part II (e) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to the use and transfer of cash; relevant to banks and MVTS institutions)
DPRK
Expresses concern that DPRK nationals are sent to work in other States for
3321 the purpose of earning hard currency that the DPRK uses for its nuclear
34 and ballistic missile programmes, and calls upon States to exercise vigilance
(2016) over this practice
3321 Reiterates its concern that bulk cash may be used to evade measures
(2016) 35 imposed by the Security Council, and calls upon Member States to be alert
to this risk
PartII(e)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)(con't)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

60 |
Part II (f) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to granting of export credits or providing insurance services) (DPRK only)
PartII(f)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)
UNSCR OP Extract of Provision
Part II (f) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to granting of export credits or providing insurance services)
DPRK
1874
(2009)
20
Calls upon all Member States not to provide public financial support for trade
with the DPRK (including the granting of export credits, guarantees or
insurance to their national or entities involved in such trade) where such
financial support could contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear-related or ballistic
missile-related or other WMD-related programs or activities
2094
(2013)
15
Decides that all Member States shall not provide public financial support for
trade with the DPRK (including the granting of export credits, guarantees or
insurance to their nationals or entities involved in such trade) where such
financial support could contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile
programmes, or other activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006),
1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or this resolution, or to the evasion of measures
imposed by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or this
resolution
2270
(2016)
20
Decides that all States shall prohibit their nationals, persons subject to their
jurisdiction and entities incorporated in their territory or subject to their
jurisdiction from registering vessels in the DPRK, obtaining authorisation for a
vessel to use the DPRK flag, and from owning, leasing, operating, providing any
vessel classification, certification or associated service, or insuring any vessel
flagged by the DPRK...
2270
(2016)
36
Decides that all States shall prohibit public and private financial support from
within their territories or by persons or entities subject to their jurisdiction for
trade with the DPRK (including the granting of export credits, guarantees or
insurance to their nationals or entities involved in such trade) where such
financial support could contribute to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile
programs or other activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009),
2087 (2013), 2094 (2013) or this resolution, including paragraph 8
2321
(2016)
Decides that paragraph 20 of resolution 2270 (2016) shall apply to registering
vessels in the DPRK, obtaining authorisation for a vessel to use the DPRK flag, and
owning, leasing, operating, providing any vessel classification, certification or
associated service, or insuring any vessel flagged by the DPRK, without
exception, unless the Committee approves on a case-by-case basis in advance
2321
(2016)
22
Decides that all Member States shall prohibit their nationals, persons subject to
their jurisdiction and entities incorporated in their territory or subject to their
jurisdiction from providing insurance or re-insurance services to vessels
owned, controlled, or operated, including through illicit means, by the DPRK
unless the Committee determines on a case-by-case basis that the vessel is
engaged in activities exclusively for livelihood purposes which will not be used by
DPRK individuals or entities to generate revenue or exclusively for humanitarian
purposes
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 61
UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
(con’t) Part II (f) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to granting of export credits or providing insurance services)
DPRK
Decides that all Member States shall prohibit public and private financial
support from within their territories or by persons or entities subject to their
32 | jurisdiction for trade with the DPRK (including the granting of export credits,
guarantees or insurance to their nationals or entities involved in such
trade), except as approved in advance by the Committee on a case-by-case basis
2321
(2016)
Decides that, if a Member State determines that an individual is working on
behalf of or at the direction of a DPRK bank or financial institution, then
Member States shall expel the individual from their territories for the
purpose of repatriation to the individual’s state of nationality, consistent with
2321 33 applicable national and international law, unless the presence of the individual is
(2016) required for fulfilment of a judicial process or exclusively for medical, safety or
other humanitarian purposes, or the Committee has determined on a case-by-
case basis that the expulsion of the individual would be contrary to the objectives
of resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874(2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013),
2270 (2016), or this resolution
Clarifies that the prohibitions contained in paragraph 11 _= of
13 | resolution 2094 (2013) apply to clearing of funds through all Member States’
territories
2371
(2017)
Clarifies that companies performing financial services commensurate with
those provided by banks are considered financial institutions for the
14 | purposes of implementing paragraph 11 of resolution 2094 (2013), paragraphs
33 and 34 of resolution 2270 (2016), and paragraph 33. of
resolution 2321 (2016)
2371
(2017)
Reaffirms paragraph 22 of resolution 2321 (2016) and decides that each Member
State shall prohibit its nationals, persons subject to its jurisdiction and entities
incorporated in its territory or subject to its jurisdiction from providing
insurance or re-insurance services to vessels it has reasonable grounds to
believe were involved in activities, or the transport of items, prohibited by
11 | resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013), 2270 (2016),
2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), 2371 (2017), 2375 (2017), or this resolution, unless
the Committee determines on a case-by-case basis that the vessel is engaged in
activities exclusively for livelihood purposes which will not be used by DPRK
individuals or entities to generate revenue or exclusively for humanitarian
purposes
2397
(2017)PartII(f)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)(con’t)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

62 |
Part II (g) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to earnings of DPRK workers abroad) (DPRK only)
PartII(g)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
Part II (g) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to earnings of DPRK workers abroad)
DPRK
2371
(2017)
11
Expresses concern that DPRK nationals frequently work in other States for
the purpose of generating foreign export earnings that the DPRK uses to
support its prohibited nuclear and ballistic missile programs, decides that all
Member States shall not exceed on any date after the date of adoption of this
resolution the total number of work authorisations for DPRK nationals
provided in their jurisdictions at the time of the adoption of this resolution
unless the Committee approves on a case-by-case basis in advance that
employment of additional DPRK nationals beyond the number of work
authorisations provided in a member state’s jurisdiction at the time of the
adoption of this resolution is required for the delivery of humanitarian
assistance, denuclearisation or any other purpose consistent with the
objectives of resolutions 1718(2006), 1874(2009), 2087 (2013),
2094 (2013), 2270 (2016), 2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), or this resolution
2397
(2017)
Q74
Expresses concern that DPRK nationals continue to work in other States for
the purpose of generating foreign export earnings that the DPRK uses to
support its prohibited nuclear and ballistic missile programmes despite the
adoption of paragraph 17 of resolution 2375 (2017), decides that Member
States shall repatriate to the DPRK all DPRK nationals earning income in that
Member State’s jurisdiction and all DPRK government safety oversight
attachés monitoring DPRK workers abroad immediately but no later than
24 months from the date of adoption of this resolution unless the Member
State determines that a DPRK national is a national of that Member State ora
DPRK national whose repatriation is prohibited, subject to applicable national
and international law, including international refugee law and international
human rights law, and the United Nations Headquarters Agreement and the
Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations...
74
UNSCR 2375 (2017) refers to the obligation that Member States shall not provide work
authorisation for DPRK nationals in their jurisdictions in connection with admission to their
territories unless a case-by-case basis approval from the Security Council 1718 Committee for
humanitarian purposes has been obtained.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 63
Part II (h) Other measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to the real estate sector) (DPRK only)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
Part II (h) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to the real estate sector)
DPRK
Decides that all Member States shall prohibit the DPRK from using real
property that it owns or leases in their territory for any purpose other
2321 18 than diplomatic or consular activities
(2016)
PartII(h)OtherMeasures(DPRK)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

Part II (i): Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to leasing or chartering of vessels and related services) (DPRK only)
UNSCR OP Extract of Provision
Part II (i) Other Measures: Activity-based Financial Prohibitions
(relating to leasing or chartering of vessels and related services)
DPRK
Decides that Member States shall prohibit their nationals and those in their
territories from leasing or chartering their flagged vessels or aircraft or
providing crew services to the DPRK, and decides that this prohibition shall
also apply with respect to any designated individuals or entities, any
other DPRK entities, any other individuals or entities whom the State
determines to have assisted in the evasion of sanctions or in violating the
provisions of resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013),
2094 (2013) or this resolution, any individuals or entities acting on behalf
or at the direction of any of the aforementioned, and any entities owned
2270 19 or controlled by any of the aforementioned, calls upon Member States to de-
(2016) register any vessel that is owned, operated or crewed by the DPRK, further
calls upon Member States not to register any such vessel that is de-registered
by another Member State pursuant to this paragraph, and decides that this
provision shall not apply with respect to such leasing, chartering or provision
of crew services notified to the Committee in advance on a case-by-case basis
accompanied by: a) information demonstrating that such activities are
exclusively for livelihood purposes which will not be used by DPRK individuals
or entities to generate revenue, and b) information on measures taken to
prevent such activities from contributing to violations of the aforementioned
resolutions
Decides that paragraph 19 of resolution 2270 (2016) shall apply with respect
8 to all leasing, chartering or provision of crew services to the DPRK without
exception, unless the Committee approves on a case-by-case basis in advance
2321
(2016)
2321 23 Decides that all Member States shall prohibit their nationals from procuring
(2016) vessel and aircraft crewing services from the DPRK
PartII(i)OtherMeasures:Activity-basedFinancialProhibitions(DPRK)
Recalls paragraph 30 of resolution 2321 (2016) and decides that all Member
States shall prevent the direct or indirect supply, sale or transfer to the DPRK,
2397 14 through their territories or by their nationals, or using their flag vessels or
(2017) aircraft, and whether or not originating in their territories, of any new or used
vessels, except as approved in advance by the Committee on a case-by-case
basis
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 65
Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related) (DPRK only)
OP Extract of Provision
Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
8(a)
Decides that: (a) All Member States shall prevent the direct or indirect
supply, sale or transfer to the DPRK, through their territories or by their
nationals, or using their flag vessels or aircraft, and whether or not originating
in their territories, of:
(i) Any battle tanks, armoured combat vehicles, large calibre artillery systems,
combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems as
defined for the purpose ofthe United Nations Register on Conventional Arms, or
related materiel including spare parts, or items as determined by the
Security Council or the Committee established by paragraph 12 below (the
Committee):
(ii) All items, materials, equipment, goods and technology as set out in the
lists in documents $/2006/814 and S/2006/815, unless within 14 days of
adoption of this resolution the Committee has amended or completed their
provisions also taking into account the list in document S/2006/816, as well as
other items, materials, equipment, goods and technology, determined by
the Security Council or the Committee, which could contribute to DPRK’s
nuclear-related, ballistic missile-related or other weapons of mass destruction-
related programmes;
8(b)
Decides that ... (b) The DPRK shall cease the export of all items covered in
subparagraphs (a)(i) and (a)(ii) above and that all Member States shall
prohibit the procurement of such items from the DPRK by their nationals,
or using their flagged vessels or aircraft, and whether or not originating in the
territory of the DPRK;
8(c)
Decides that ... (c) All Member States shall prevent any transfers to the DPRK
by their nationals or from their territories, or from the DPRK by its national or
from its territory, of technical training, advice, services or assistance related
to the provision, manufacture, maintenance or use of the items in
subparagraphs a(i) and a(ii) above
UNSCR |
DPRK
oS
a4
Qu
S
= | 1718
£ | (2006)
F
i)
an)
©
hom
=
“
=|
=
—
i)
<
©
N
fr
hom
S| 1718
2 | (2006)
—
2
&
=)
=|
8 | 1718
% | (2006)
o
hom
=)
“
is)
i)
=
ham
ov
i
—_
©
:
im
9
a | 2270
(2016)
2975
Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft, coal,
iron, and iron ore, and that all States shall prohibit the procurement of
such material from the DPRK by their nationals, or using their flag vessels or
aircraft, and whether or not originating in the territory of the DPRK, and
decides that this provision shall not apply with respect to:
(a) Coal that the procuring State confirms on the basis of credible information
has originated outside the DPRK and was transported through the DPRK solely
for export from the Port of Rajin (Rason), provided that the State notifies the
Committee in advance and such transactions are unrelated to generating
revenue for the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programs or other activities
prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013)
or this resolution; and,
(b) Transactions that are determined to be exclusively for livelihood purposes
and unrelated to generating revenue for the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile
programs or other activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006),
1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094 (2013) or this resolution;
Refer to entry of OP 8 of UNSCR 2371 (2017) for updated requirements.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

66 |
PartII(j)OtherMeasures:Economic/SectoralSanctions(Trade-related)(DPRK)(con’t)
UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
DPRK
2270
(2016)
Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft, gold,
titanium ore, vanadium ore, and rare earth minerals, and that all States
shall prohibit the procurement of such material from the DPRK by their
nationals, or using their flag vessels or aircraft, and whether or not originating
in the territory of the DPRK
30
2321
(2016)
Decides that paragraph 29 of resolution 2270 (2016) shall be replaced by the
following:
“Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft, coal,
iron, and iron ore, and that all States shall prohibit the procurement of such
material from the DPRK by their nationals, or using their flag vessels or
aircraft, and whether or not originating in the territory of the DPRK, and
decides that this provision shall not apply with respect to:
(a) Coal that the procuring State confirms on the basis of credible information
has originated outside the DPRK and was transported through the DPRK solely
for export from the Port of Rajin (Rason), provided that the State notifies the
Committee in advance and such transactions are unrelated to generating
revenue for the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes or other
activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013),
2094 (2013) or this resolution;
2676 (b) Total exports to all Member States of coal originating in the DPRK that in
the aggregate do not exceed 53 495 894 US dollars or 1 000 866 metric tons,
whichever is lower, between the date of adoption of this resolution and
31 December 2016, and total exports to all Member States of coal originating
in the DPRK that in the aggregate do not exceed 400 870 018 US dollars or
7 500 000 metric tons per year, whichever is lower, beginning 1 January 2017,
provided that the procurements (i) involve no individuals or entities that are
associated with the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes or other
activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013),
2094 (2013), 2270 (2016) or this resolution, including designated individuals
or entities, or individuals or entities acting on their behalf or at their direction,
or entities owned or controlled by them, directly or indirectly, or individuals or
entities assisting in the evasion of sanctions, and (ii) are exclusively for
livelihood purposes of DPRK nationals and unrelated to generating revenue for
the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes or other activities
prohibited by resolutions 1718(2006), 1874(2009), 2087 (2013),
2094 (2013), 2270 (2016) or this resolution, and decides that each Member
State that procures coal from the DPRK shall notify the Committee of the
aggregate amount of the volume of such procurement for each month no later
Refer to entry of OP 8 of UNSCR 2371 (2017) for updated requirements.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 67
UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
(con’t) Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
DPRK
than 30 days after the conclusion of that month on the form in annex V to this
resolution, directs the Committee to make publicly available on its website
the volume of procurement of coal from the DPRK reported by Member States
and value calculated by the Committee Secretary, as well as the amount
reported for each month and with the number of States that reported for each
month, directs the Committee to update this information on a real-time basis
as it receives notifications, calls upon all States that import coal from the
DPRK to periodically review this website to ensure that they do not exceed
the mandatory aggregate annual limit, directs the Committee Secretary to
notify all Member States when an aggregate value or volume of coal
procurements from the DPRK of 75 per cent of the aggregate yearly amount
has been reached, also directs the Committee Secretary to notify all Member
States when an aggregate value or volume of coal procurements from the
DPRK of 90 per cent of the aggregate yearly amount has been reached, further
directs the Committee Secretary to notify all Member States when an
2321 26 aggregate value or volume of coal procurements from the DPRK of 95 per cent
(2016) (con't) of the aggregate yearly amount has been reached and to inform them that
(con't) they must immediately cease procuring coal from the DPRK for the year, and
requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements to this
effect and provide additional resources in this regard; and
(c) Transactions in iron and iron ore that are determined to be exclusively for
livelihood purposes and unrelated to generating revenue for the DPRK’s
nuclear or ballistic missile programmes or other activities prohibited by
resolutions 1718(2006), 1874(2009), 2087(2013), 2094 (2013),
2270 (2016) or this resolution.
PartII(j)OtherMeasures:Economic/SectoralSanctions(Trade-related)(DPRK)(con't)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

nNCO
PartII(j)OtherMeasures:Economic/SectoralSanctions(Trade-related)(DPRK)(con't)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
DPRK
2321
(2016)
28
Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft, copper,
nickel, silver and zinc, and that all Member States shall prohibit the
procurement of such material from the DPRK by their nationals, or using
their flag vessels or aircraft, and whether or not originating in the territory of
the DPRK
2371
(2017)
Decides that paragraph 26 of resolution 2321 (2016) shall be replaced by the
following:
“Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft, coal,
iron, and iron ore, and that all States shall prohibit the procurement of
such material from the DPRK by their nationals, or using their flag vessels or
aircraft, and whether or not originating in the territory of the DPRK, decides
that for sales and transactions of iron and iron ore for which written contracts
have been finalised prior to the adoption of this resolution, all States may allow
those shipments to be imported into their territories up to 30 days from the
date of adoption ofthis resolution with notification provided to the Committee
containing details on those imports by no later than 45 days after the date of
adoption of this resolution, and decides further that this provision shall not
apply with respect to coal that the exporting State confirms on the basis of
credible information has originated outside the DPRK and was transported
through the DPRK solely for export from the Port of Rajin (Rason), provided
that the exporting State notifies the Committee in advance and such
transactions involving coal originating outside of the DPRK are unrelated to
generating revenue for the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programs or
other activities prohibited by resolutions 1718(2006), 1874 (2009),
2087 (2013), 2094 (2013), 2270 (2016), 2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), or this
resolution
Refer to entry of OP 8 of UNSCR 2371 (2017) for updated requirements.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 69
UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
(con’t) Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
DPRK
Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft,
seafood (including fish, crustaceans, mollusks, and other aquatic
invertebrates in all forms), and that all States shall prohibit the
procurement of such items from the DPRK by their nationals, or using their
flag vessels or aircraft, whether or not originating in the territory of the DPRK,
9 and further decides that for sales and transactions of seafood (including fish,
crustaceans, mollusks, and other aquatic invertebrates in all forms) for which
written contracts have been finalised prior to the adoption of this resolution,
all States may allow those shipments to be imported into their territories up
to 30 days from the date of adoption of this resolution with notification
provided to the Committee containing details on those imports by no later
than 45 days after the date of adoption of this resolution
2371
(2017)
Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft, lead
and lead ore, and that all States shall prohibit the procurement of such
items from the DPRK by their nationals, or using their flag vessels or
aircraft, whether or not originating in the territory of the DPRK, and further
10 decides that for sales and transactions of lead and lead ore for which written
contracts have been finalised prior to the adoption of this resolution, all States
may allow those shipments to be imported into their territories up to 30 days
from the date of adoption of this resolution with notification provided to the
Committee containing details on those imports by no later than 45 days after
the date of adoption ofthis resolution
(con’t)
2371
(2017)
Decides that all Member States shall prohibit the direct or indirect
supply, sale or transfer to the DPRK, through their territories or by their
nationals, or using their flag vessels or aircraft, and whether or not originating
2375 13 in their territories, of all condensates and natural gas liquids, and decides
(2017) that the DPRK shall not procure such materials
PartII(j)OtherMeasures:Economic/SectoralSanctions(Trade-related)(DPRK)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

PartII(j)OtherMeasures:Economic/SectoralSanctions(Trade-related)(DPRK)(con't)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
DPRK
2375
(2017)
14
Decides that all Member States shall prohibit the direct or indirect supply,
sale or transfer to the DPRK, through their territories or by their nationals,
or using their flag vessels or aircraft, and whether or not originating in their
territories, of all refined petroleum products, decides that this provision
shall not apply with respect to procurement by the DPRK or the direct or
indirect supply, sale or transfer to the DPRK, through their territories or by
their nationals, or using their flag vessels or aircraft, and whether or not
originating in their territories, of refined petroleum products in the amount of
up to 500 000 barrels during an initial period of three months beginning on
1 October 2017 and ending on 31 December 2017, and refined petroleum
products in the amount of up to 2 000 000 barrels per year during a period of
twelve months beginning on 1 January 2018 and annually thereafter, provided
that ... (b) the supply, sale, or transfer of refined petroleum products involve
no individuals or entities that are associated with the DPRK’s nuclear or
ballistic missile programmes or other activities prohibited by resolutions
1718 (2006), 1874(2009), 2087(2013), 2094(2013), 2270 (2016),
2321 (2016), 2356(2017), 2371(2017) or this resolution, including
designated individuals or entities, or individuals or entities acting on their
behalf or at their direction, or entities owned or controlled by them, directly or
indirectly, or individuals or entities assisting in the evasion of sanctions, and
(c) the supply, sale, or transfer of refined petroleum products are exclusively
for livelihood purposes of DPRK nationals and unrelated to generating revenue
for the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes or other activities
prohibited by resolutions 1718(2006), 1874(2009), 2087 (2013),
2094 (2013), 2270 (2016), 2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), 2371 (2017) or this
resolution ...
2375
(2017)
15
Decides that all Member States shall not supply, sell, or transfer to the
DPRK in any period of twelve months after the date of adoption of this
resolution an amount of crude oil that is in excess of the amount that the
Member State supplied, sold or transferred in the period of twelve months
prior to adoption of this resolution, unless the Committee approves in advance
on a case-by-case basis a shipment of crude oil is exclusively for livelihood
purposes of DPRK nationals and unrelated to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic
missile programmes or other activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006),
1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 2094(2013), 2270(2016), 2321 (2016),
2356 (2017), or this resolution
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

UNSCR | OP | Extractof Provision
(con’t) Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/ Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
DPRK
Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft,
textiles (including but not limited to fabrics and partially or fully completed
apparel products), and that all States shall prohibit the procurement of
such items from the DPRK by their nationals, or using their flag vessels or
aircraft, whether or not originating in the territory of the DPRK, unless the
2375 16 Committee approves on a case-by-case basis in advance, and further decides
(2017) that for such sales, supplies, and transfers of textiles (including but not
limited to fabrics and partially or fully completed apparel products) for which
written contracts have been finalised prior to the adoption of this resolution,
all States may allow those shipments to be imported into their territories up
to 90 days from the date of adoption of this resolution with notification
provided to the Committee containing details on those imports by no later
than 135 days after the date of adoption of this resolution
Decides that all Member States shall prohibit the direct or indirect
supply, sale or transfer to the DPRK, through their territories or by their
nationals, or using their flag vessels, aircraft, pipelines, rail lines, or vehicles
and whether or not originating in their territories, of all crude oil, unless the
Committee approves in advance on a case-by-case basis a shipment of crude
oil which is exclusively for livelihood purposes of DPRK nationals and
unrelated to the DPRK’s nuclear or ballistic missile programmes or other
activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013),
2094 (2013), 2270(2016), 2321(2016), 2356(2017), 2371 (2017),
4 2375 (2017) or this resolution, further decides that this prohibition shall not
apply with respect to crude oil that, for a period of twelve months after the
date of adoption of this resolution, and for twelve months periods thereafter,
does not exceed 4 million barrels or 525 000 tons in the aggregate per twelve
month period, and decides that all Member States providing crude oil shall
provide a report to the Committee every 90 days from the date of adoption of
this resolution of the amount of crude oil provided to the DPRK
2397
(2017)
PartII(j)OtherMeasures:Economic/SectoralSanctions(Trade-related)(DPRK)(con't)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

72 |
PartII(j)OtherMeasures:Economic/SectoralSanctions(Trade-related)(DPRK)(con’t)
UNSCR | Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
DPRK
2397
(2017)
Decides that all Member States shall prohibit the direct or indirect supply,
sale or transfer to the DPRK, through their territories or by their nationals,
or using their flag vessels, aircraft, pipelines, rail lines, or vehicles, and
whether or not originating in their territories, of all refined petroleum
products, decides that the DPRK shall not procure such products, further
decides that this provision shall not apply with respect to procurement by the
DPRK or the direct or indirect supply, sale, or transfer to the DPRK, through
their territories or by their nationals, or using their flag vessels, aircraft,
pipelines, rail lines, or vehicles, and whether or not originating in their
territories, of refined petroleum products, including diesel and kerosene, in
the aggregate amount of up to 500000 barrels during a period of twelve
months beginning on January1, 2018, and for twelve month periods
thereafter, provided that (a) the Member State notifies the Committee every
thirty days of the amount of such supply, sale, or transfer to the DPRK of
refined petroleum products along with information about all the parties to the
transaction, (b) the supply, sale, or transfer of refined petroleum products
involve no individuals or entities that are associated with the DPRK’s nuclear
or ballistic missile programmes or other activities prohibited by resolutions
1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087(2013), 2094(2013), 2270 (2016),
2321 (2016), 2356 (2017), 2371 (2017), 2375 (2017), or this resolution,
including designated individuals or entities, or individuals or entities acting on
their behalf or at their direction, or entities owned or controlled by them,
directly or indirectly, or individuals or entities assisting in the evasion of
sanctions..., directs the Panel of Experts to closely monitor the implementation
efforts of all Member States to provide assistance and ensure full and global
compliance ...
2397
(2017)
Decides that the DPRK shall not supply, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly,
from its territory or by its nationals or using its flag vessels or aircraft, food
and agricultural products (HS codes 12, 08, 07), machinery (HS code 84),
electrical equipment (HS code 85), earth and stone including magnesite
and magnesia (HS code 25), wood (HS code 44), and vessels (HS code 89),
and that all States shall prohibit the procurement of the above-mentioned
commodities and products from the DPRK by their nationals, or using their
flag vessels or aircraft, whether or not originating in the territory of the DPRK,
clarifies that the full sectoral ban on seafood in paragraph 9 of resolution
2371 (2017) prohibits the DPRK from selling or transferring, directly or
indirectly, fishing rights...
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
(con’t) Part II (j) Other Measures: Economic/ Sectoral Sanctions (Trade-related)
DPRK
Decides that all Member States shall prohibit the direct or indirect supply,
sale or transfer to the DPRK, through their territories or by their nationals,
or using their flag vessels, aircraft, pipelines, rail lines, or vehicles and
whether or not originating in their territories, of all industrial machinery
(HS codes 84 and 85), transportation vehicles (HS codes 86 through
89), and iron, steel, and other metals (HS codes 72 through 83) ...
2397
(2017)
PartII(j)OtherMeasures(DPRK)(con't)
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

74 |
Part II (k): Other Measures: Vigilance and Other Financial Measures
(DPRK only)
PartII(k)OtherMeasures:VigilanceandotherFinancialMeasures(DPRK)
UNSCR | OP | Extract of Provision
Part II (kK) Vigilance and other financial measures
DPRK
1695
(2006)
Requires all Member States...to exercise vigilance and prevent the
procurement of missiles or missile related-items, materials, goods and
technology from the DPRK, and the transfer of any financial resources in
relation to DPRK’s missile or WMD programmes
1874
(2009)
1978
Calls upon all Member States and international financial and credit
institutions not to enter into new commitments for grants, financial
assistance, or concessional loans to the DPRK, except for humanitarian and
developmental purposes directly addressing the needs of the civilian
population, or the promotion of denuclearisation, and also calls upon States to
exercise enhanced vigilance with a view to reducing current commitments
2087
(2013)
679
Recalls paragraph 18 of resolution 1874 (2009), and calls upon Member States
to exercise enhanced vigilance in this regard, including monitoring the
activities of their nationals, persons in their territories, financial institutions,
and other entities organised under their laws (including branches abroad)
with or on behalf of financial institutions in the DPRK, or of those that act
on behalf or at the direction of DPRK financial institutions, including their
branches, representatives, agents and subsidiaries abroad
2094
(2013)
2.4.80
Calls upon States to exercise enhanced vigilance over DPRK diplomatic
personnel so as to prevent such individuals from contributing to the DPRK’s
nuclear or ballistic missile programmes, or other activities prohibited by
resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), and this resolution, or to
the evasion of measures imposed by resolutions 1718 (2006),
1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or this resolution
2321
(2016)
20
Recalls that paragraph 18 of resolution 2270 (2016) requires all States to
inspect the cargo within or transiting through their territory, including their
airports, that has originated in the DPRK, or that is destined for the DPRK, or has
been brokered or facilitated by the DPRK or its nationals, or by individuals or
entities acting on their behalf or at their direction, or entities owned or
controlled by them, or by designated individuals or entities, or that is being
transported on DPRK-flagged aircraft, emphasises that this measure requires
States to inspect DPRK-flagged aircraft when they land in or take off from their
territory, recalls also that paragraph 31 of resolution 2270 (2016) requires all
States to prevent the sale or supply, by their nationals or from their
territories or using their flag vessels or aircraft, of aviation fuel, to the territory
of the DPRK, and calls upon all States to exercise vigilance to ensure that no
more fuel is provided to DPRK-flagged civil passenger aircraft than is
necessary for the relevant flight, including a standard margin for safety of flight
78
79
Originally grouped under Vigilance Measures in 2013 Guidance.
Originally grouped under Vigilance Measures in 2013 Guidance.
Originally grouped under Vigilance Measures in 2013 Guidance.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

| 75
PartII(k)OtherMeasures:VigilanceandotherFinancialMeasures(DPRK)(con’t)
UNSCR | OP Extract of Provision
(con't) Part II (k) Vigilance and other financial measures
DPRK
Expresses concern that DPRK nationals are sent to work in other States
2321 34 for the purpose of earning hard currency that the DPRK uses for its
(2016) nuclear and ballistic missile programmes, and calls upon States to exercise
vigilance over this practice
9324 Reiterates its concern that bulk cash may be used to evade measures
3581 imposed by the Security Council, and calls upon Member States to be alert
(2016) .
to this risk
Expresses concern that DPRK-flagged, controlled, chartered, or operated
vessels intentionally disregard requirements to operate their automatic
identification systems (AIS) to evade UNSCR sanctions monitoring by
turning off such systems to mask their full movement history and calls upon
2397 . os ;
(2017) 13 Member States to exercise enhanced vigilance with regards to such vessels
conducting activities prohibited by resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009),
2087 (2013), 2094(2013), 2270(2016), 2321(2016), 2356 (2017),
2371 (2017), 2375 (2017), or this resolution
81
Extends the items to which the measures of UNSCR 2094 (2013), OPs 11 and 14 apply.
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

76 |
Bibliography
FATF (2008), Proliferation Financing Report, FATF, Paris
www .fatf-
gafi.org/topics /methodsandtrends /documents/typologiesreportonproliferationfina
ncing.html
FATF (2010), Combating Proliferation Financing: A Status Report on Policy
Development and Consultation, FATF, Paris
wwwfatf-gafi.org/media/fatf/documents/reports /Status-report-proliferation-
financing.pdf
FATF (2012), FATF Best Practices Paper on Recommendation 2: Sharing among
domestic competent authorities information related to the financing of proliferation,
FATF, Paris
www .fatf-
gafi.org/topics/fatfrecommendations/documents/bestpracticespaperonrecommend
ation2sharingamongdomesticcompetentauthoritiesinformationrelatedtothefinancin
gofproliferation.html
FATF (2013), FATF Guidance National Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing
Risk Assessment, FATF, Paris
www .fatf-
gafi.org/media/fatf/content/images/National ML TF Risk Assessment.pdf
FATF (2015), Guidance for a Risk-based Approach Effective Supervision and
Enforcement by AML/CFT Supervisors of the Financial Sector and Law Enforcement,
FATF, Paris
wwwfatf-gafi.org/media/fatf/documents /reports /RBA-Effective-supervision-and-
enforcement.pdf
King’s College London (2017), Final Report: Study of Typologies of Financing of
WMD Proliferation, King’s College London, London
https://projectalpha.eu/wp-content/uploads/sites/21/2017/10/FoP-13-October-
2017-Final.pdf
UN Security Council (2017), Midterm report of the Panel of Experts submitted
pursuant to resolution 2345 (2017), United Nations, New York
www.un.org/ga/search/view doc.asp?symbol=S /2017/742
UN Security Council (2017), Final Report of the Panel of Experts submitted pursuant
to resolution 2276 (2016), United Nations, New York
www.un.org/ga/search/view doc.asp?symbol=S/2017/150
UN Security Council, Reports about the Implementation of the Assets Freeze
Provisions pursuant
www.un.org/en/sc/2231/sg-reports.shtml
FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING

FATF GUIDANCE ON COUNTER PROLIFERATION FINANCING
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF FINANCIAL PROVISIONS OF UNITED NATIONS SECURITY
COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS TO COUNTER THE PROLIFERATION OF WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION
This guidance aims to help both public and private sector stakeholders understand and
implement the obligations of the United Nations Security Council Resolutions, as well as how
to prevent sanctions from being evaded. It also aims to assist public sector stakeholders in
building a more effective national coordination mechanism and supervisory regime to counter
proliferation financing.
www. fatf-gafi.org | November 2017

