AML/CFT INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIP
Legal Persons — Misuse Typologies and Best Practices
May 2018

Table of Contents
1. Introduction
1.1 Background
1.2 Objective
1.3 Sources
1.4 Approach
2. Legal Person Profiles
2.1 Legal Persons banking in Singapore
2.2 Risk Profiles of Legal Persons banking in Singapore
3. Legal Person Misuse Typologies
4, Professional Intermediaries
4.1 Law Firms
4.2 Professional Advisors
4.3 Company Service Providers
5. Conclusions and Recommendations
6. Appendices
Page 2 of 47

1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. BACKGROUND
Legal Persons! such as companies and partnerships can be used to conduct a wide range of commercial and
entrepreneurial activities. They can generally be created with ease in numerous countries, and have ready access
to the international financial system.
In spite of the essential and legitimate role that Legal Persons play in the global economy, they can and have
been misused for illicit purposes, including money laundering, terrorism financing and proliferation financing.
This is partly because corporate vehicles can be used to disguise beneficial ownership and move or convert
proceeds of crime prior to introducing them into the financial system. Transactions occurring across multi-
jurisdictional structures (i.e. structures consisting of a series of corporate entities created in different countries)
are particularly difficult to trace. Structures which promote complexity or opacity increase the difficulty for
authorities to obtain accurate beneficial owner information. These problems are exacerbated when the beneficial
owners, Company Service Providers (CSPs) or other relevant professional advisors (e.g. lawyers) reside outside
the jurisdiction where the Legal Person is created.
With corruption, fraud, tax-evasion and money laundering risks arising from corporate vehicles highlighted yet
again in several high profile cases, the issue of transparency has come under increased global scrutiny, including
from the G20, the Financial Action Task Force and the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of
Information for Tax Purposes.
These risks have been noted by the Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Industry
Partnership (ACIP), a public-private initiative (co-Chaired by the Commercial Affairs Department and the
Monetary Authority of Singapore) set up to bring selected industry participants, regulators, law enforcement
agencies and other government entities in Singapore to collaboratively identify, assess and mitigate key Money
Laundering/Terrorism Financing (ML/TF) risks facing Singapore. Objectives of the ACIP include development of
detailed typologies, more sophisticated red flag indicators and other forms of guidance in key risk areas. On 4
April 2017, in accordance with its mandate to act on key transnational risks, ACIP set up the Legal Persons
Working Group (Legal Persons WG) to develop Legal Persons risk products to enhance the industry's
understanding and approach to mitigating this risk. Additionally, the Legal Persons WG was invited to provide
recommendations through a best practices paper to strengthen national risk understanding of the misuse of
Legal Persons.
The Legal Persons WG is co-Chaired by the Group General Counsel and Group Head of Anti-Money Laundering
(AML), OCBC, and the Asia Pacific Head of Financial Crime, UBS. The Legal Persons WG members (primarily
representatives from commercial banks and private banks operating in Singapore) and_ professional
intermediaries (made up of law firms, CSPs and professional advisors) to this Paper are listed in Appendix A.
1.2. OBJECTIVE
The Legal Persons WG has prepared this best practice paper, with the objective of providing:
e A profile of Legal Persons active in Singapore, and a high-level overview of their risk profile.
e Typologies and case studies on the misuse of Legal Persons observed in Singapore.
e Red flags indicating misuse of Legal Persons and accompanying best practice for risk mitigation.
e Recommendations to improve the detection of the misuse of Legal Persons.
1 In accordance with the definition provided by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), Legal Persons are any entities, other than natural persons,
that can establish a permanent customer relationship with a financial institution or otherwise own property. This can include companies, bodies
corporate, foundations, Anstalt, partnerships, or associations and other relevant similar entities that have legal personality. This can include non-
profit organisations (NPOs) that can take a variety of forms which vary between jurisdictions, such as foundations, associations or cooperative
societies. The concept is different from legal personality.
Page 3 of 47

1.3. SOURCES
The information in this paper has been obtained from the core members of the Legal Persons WG comprising
representatives from Commercial Banks and Private Banks conducting business in Singapore. In addition,
contributions were obtained from CSPs and professional advisors with expertise in identifying and understanding
ML/TF risks.
The information has been compiled by the co-Chairs and enhanced via working group discussions. The co-Chairs
collected data from Legal Persons WG in a survey. For sensitive parts of the survey, the Monetary Authority of
Singapore (MAS) assisted the Legal Persons WG in aggregating and anonymising the data, to ensure the
confidentiality of the participants’ customer data.
1.4, APPROACH
Legal Persons’ profile
A survey was designed to collect the following Legal Persons profile attributes from participating commercial and
private banks in the working group for the time period January to June 2017:
° Place of incorporation
° Nationality/ Domicile of the beneficial owner
° Industry Classification / Activities of Legal Persons
° Legal Persons’ type
A separate survey was also performed to collect information on risk profiles of various types of Legal Persons,
using as proxy, aggregated suspicious transaction report filings pertaining to Legal Persons in recent years (2015
to 2016).
Legal Persons WG also pooled together key case studies which indicate abuse of Legal Persons, and shared best
practices to mitigate the risks attendant.
The Legal Persons WG did not share commercially sensitive or client identifying information with each other, in
the preparation of this paper. The surveys were completed by the banks in the Legal Persons WG and provided
directly to MAS. MAS then aggregated and provided a consolidated view of the information to the Legal Persons
WG while the professional intermediaries provided inputs to the Co-Chairs directly.
Typologies
Typologies were identified based on their educational potential for highlighting best practice approaches to Legal
Persons risk scenarios including the identification of red flags and case management. The typologies include
existing common typologies as well as new emerging typologies.
Best practice
Best practice approaches are set out in relation to each of the typologies.
Page 4 of 47

2. LEGAL PERSONS PROFILE
2.1. LEGAL PERSONS BANKING IN SINGAPORE
Based on the information provided by the participating banks, two types of Legal Persons are the most common:
Private Limited Company (65.6%) and Sole Proprietorship (21.1%). All other Legal Persons are far less common:
Type of Legal Persons %
Private Limited Company 65.6%
Sole Proprietor 21.1%
Partnership 4.0%
Limited Liability Partnership 1.7%
Society/Association/School 1.6%
Public Listed Company 1.3%
Personal Investment Company (PIC)? 1.3%
Remaining Legal Persons types together 3.4%
(each less than 1%)
Total 100%
In terms of the business activities of the legal entities in the sample, the following distribution has been observed:
Business Activity %
Wholesale and Retail Trade 23.6%
Professional, Scientific and Technical Activities 13.9%
Financial and Insurance Activities 8.5%
Manufacturing 8.3%
Construction 8.2%
Other Service Activities 6.2%
Transportation and Storage 4.8%
Information and Communications 4.5%
Accommodation and Food Service Activities 4.1%
Administrative and Support Service Activities 3.8%
Real Estate Activities 3.4%
Activities Not Adequately Defined 3.0%
Health and Social Services 2.6%
Education 2.2%
Arts, Entertainment and Recreation 1.1%
Others >0.5%
91% of the Legal Persons in the survey sample were incorporated in Singapore; 9% were incorporated outside
of Singapore. 74% of the Legal Persons incorporated in Singapore have Singapore nationals as beneficial owners,
whereas only 16% of the Legal Persons incorporated outside of Singapore have Singapore nationals as beneficial
owners.
2 In accordance with the definition provided by FATF, a PIC is a type of corporation that is often established in an offshore jurisdiction with tight
secrecy laws to protect the privacy of its owners. Generally, a PIC is a specifically identified client type and therefore data should not reflect
significant overlap with Private Limited Company.
Page 5 of 47

2.2. RISK PROFILES OF LEGAL PERSONS BANKING IN SINGAPORE
In an attempt to identify the risk profiles of the various Legal Persons banking in Singapore, we turned to the
aggregated Suspicious Transaction Report (STRs) data provided by the Legal Persons WG, as a proxy of risk.
However, there were limitations to the conclusions that could be drawn. This was due to a lack of granularity of
required data, non-standard data definitions and methodologies used by different banks. Nonetheless, it was still
possible to draw the following high-level observations from the STR information collected in the survey:
e Certain Legal Persons are more represented in STR filings than others:
Type of Legal Persons % of Legal Persons %ofSTR Comparison?
Private Limited Company 65.6% 80.4% 1.2
Sole Proprietor 21.1% 4.6% 0.2
Partnership 4.0% 0.5% 0.1
Limited Liability Partnership 1.7% 0.3% 0.2
Society/Association/Schools 1.6% 0.0% 0.0
Public Listed Company 1.3% 0.3% 0.2
PIC 1.3% 8.4% 6.5
Financial Institution/Agent Bank/Local Bank* 0.7% 0.2% 0.3
Note: the number in the column “Comparison” shows whether a type of legal person is overrepresented or
underrepresented in the sample of STRs. If the number is smaller than 1, this means that the legal entity person
type is underrepresented in the sample of STRs. If the number is larger than 1, this means that the legal entity
type is overrepresented in the sample of STRs.
In order to generate a more meaningful analysis of the risk characteristics of Legal Persons, it would be helpful
if the STR filings are combined with the collection of certain standardised data.
3 The “Comparison” figures are derived by dividing the “% of STR” figure by the “% of Legal Persons” figure.
4 The category “Financial Institution/Agent Bank/Local Bank” falls under the umbrella category of “Remaining Legal Persons Types” in the table on
page 5 of the Paper.
Page 6 of 47

3.
Legal Persons misuse typologies in this section are classified according to key Modus Operandi (MO) observed.
For brevity, selected case studies for each MO are listed in this section while the rest are annexed for reference
in Appendix C.
Legal Persons Misuse Typologies
3.1. MO1: PASS-THROUGH TRANSACTIONS
Legal Persons may be set up to create additional layers in attempts to mask the proceeds from crime.
Transactions that pass through Legal Persons with no real economic purpose or plausible explanations are risk
indicators that the Legal Persons may be misused for money laundering.
MO1.1: Suspected pass-through laundering of cash
Companies 1, 2 and 3 were in the wholesale of computer hardware. Companies 5 and 6 were in consultancy
management and general wholesale trade respectively. Company 4 claimed to be dealing in electronic products.
Source of Funds (SOF) appeared to originate from cash deposits into Companies 1, 2, 5, 6 and the funds were
eventually transferred to Company 4 before being withdrawn in cash.
Company 1
Cash Deposits
SGD 4 million
Incorporated: South-East
> Asia; UBO: South-East Asia
Wholesale
(computer hardware)
Company 2
Cash Deposits
SGD 2 million
Incorporated: South-East
*| Asia; UBO: South-East Asia
Wholesale
(computer hardware)
Cash Deposits
SGD 2 million
Company 5
.| Incorporated: South-East
Asia; UBO: South-East Asia
Consultancy
'
Cash Deposits
SGD 5 million
Company 6
»| Incorporated: South-East
Asia; UBO: South-East Asia
General Wholesale
Company 3
Incorporated: South-East Asia;
UBO: South-East Asia
Wholesale
(computer hardware)
Multiple transfers
million to 1 million
over 2 months
v
Multiple transfers
ranging from SGD 0.3
million to 1 million
over 2 months
Company 4
Incorporated: South-East Asia;
UBO: South-East Asia
Wholesale
*Claimed to be dealing in electronic
The size and frequency of the deposits were as follows:
products
v
Rapid Cash Withdrawals
over 2 months in 2016
Company Cash deposits amount per transaction | No of cash Period cash deposits occurred
deposits
1 SGD 0.4 million-0.7 million 5-7 Over 2 months
2 SGD 0.4 million-0.6 million 3-5 Over 1 month
5 SGD 0.3 million-0.9 million 3-5 Over 2 months
6 SGD 0.2 million-0.8 million 7-10 Over 2 months
Page 7 of 47
ranging from SGD 0.3

Despite claiming to be dealing in electronic products, company registry records showed that Company 4 was
involved in the recycling industry. Based on the invoices provided by Companies 3 and 4, the electronic products
were not a widely known brand. Further research showed that the product website lacked information about the
company, and no contact details were provided. During the same period, the bank noticed a sudden increase in
transaction volumes for Companies 1 to 6. The amount of trade appeared to be relatively large and did not
appear commensurate with the companies’ past transaction profiles. In addition, the bank noticed large cash
deposits, followed by rapid pass through transactions where funds were ultimately transferred to Company 4
before being withdrawn in cash within one month.
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Wholesale Trading
Funding channel Physical Cash deposit / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country (ultimate beneficial owner and
place of incorporation of Companies 1 to 6)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by
banks
Current Accounts, Deposit Taking
Red Flags Pass-through activity
Mismatched business profile
Dubious underlying goods
Unusual transaction behaviour or activity
Large cash deposits and withdrawals
Best Practices Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
e Obtain information on the transactions:
o Underlying transactions should be corroborated; and
o Corroborate customers’ declarations against publicly available information.
e Implement systems that allow the bank to review transaction behaviour
of related entities (including individuals and entities) in a_ holistic
manner.
e Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag multiple cash withdrawals and/or deposits within a short time-frame;
and
o Detect spikes in transaction activity.
MO1.2: Suspected money-laundering using pass-through activities and structuring
Companies 2 to 6 were incorporated in a South-East Asian country. They all had the same beneficial owner from
a European country. The nature of business declared by these companies are set out below:
Company Nature of business Ultimate Beneficial Owner
(UBO)
Company 2 General wholesale (Machinery) MrA
Company 3 Consultancy MrA
Company 4 Consultancy MrA
Company 5 General wholesale MrA
Company 6 Convention / Conference / Real estate activities MrA
Companies 2 to 6 represented to the bank at on-boarding that they intended to pursue their business activities
in a local or regional Asian context.
Page 8 of 47

Company 1
Offshore Company Location
Commodities Trading
EUR 0.88 million
1 Jun 2016v
Company 2
Incorporated: South-East
Asia; UBO A: Europe
General Wholesale
(Machinery)
EUR 0.28 million EUR 0.31 million
4 2Jun 2016
Company 3 Company 4 Company 5
Incorporated: South-East Incorporated: South-East Incorporated: South-East
Asia; UBO A: Europe Asia; UBO A: Europe Asia; UBO A: Europe
Consultancy Consultancy General Wholesale
EUR 0.29 million
2 Jun 2016
EUR 0.30 million
3 Jun 2016
EUR 0.28 million
3 Jun 2016
Company 6
Incorporated: South-East
Asia; UBO A: Europe
Convention/Conference
/Real Estate Activities
.
Transferred to Company Established Commodity
6’s USD account Trading Company
Company 1 was a company incorporated in an Offshore Company Location. On 1 June 2016, Company 2 received
incoming funds of EUR 0.88 million from Company 1. On the following day, Company 2 remitted EUR 0.88 million
in total to Company 3 (EUR 0.28 million), Company 4 (EUR 0.29 million) and Company 5 (EUR 0.31 million). On
3 June 2016, outgoing remittances of EUR 0.28 million, EUR 0.29 million and EUR 0.30 million were made from
Company 3, Company 4 and Company 5 respectively to Company 6. The funds received by Company 6 were
ultimately paid out to an established commodity trading company.
The bank noticed the rapid funds flow between bank accounts held by companies that were controlled by the
same ultimate beneficial owner, which may be to conceal the origination of the funds from Company 1 before
consolidating the funds in Company 6. There also appeared to be efforts to structure the original transaction, i.e.
remittance of funds from Company 1 to Company 2, into smaller transactions via remittances to Company 3,
Company 4 and Company 5.
The underlying transactions did not match the profile and nature of business and it was suspected that the
invoices provided by the customer were likely fraudulent. Company 1, in the business of commodities trading,
purportedly paid Company 2 for electronic equipment and logistic services. Company 2’s business is in general
wholesale (Machinery) but purportedly made the following transactions:
. Paid Company 3, a consulting business, for logistic services,
. Paid Company 4, a consulting business, for scientific equipment, and
° Paid Company 5, a general wholesale business, for scientific equipment.
The bank’s customer could not provide commercial justifications to the similarly sized transactions between
Company 3, Company 4, Company 5 and Company 6, especially when Company 6 is in a different line of business.
It was also not clear why Company 6 transacted with an established commodities trading company.
Page 9 of 47

Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Trading of Commodities
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country (place of incorporation of
Company 2 to 6), Offshore Company Location (place of incorporation of Company
1), European country (ultimate beneficial owner)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by
banks
Current Accounts, Deposit taking
Red Flags Pass-through activity
Mismatch between transactions and nature of business
Structuring of transactions
Customer was unable to provide a satisfactory explanation regarding the pass
through nature of the transactions and reasons for fund transfers between
companies with seemingly unrelated business profile.
Best Practices Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions, where
transactions are not in line with commonly observed transactions
and/or industry practice.
Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag structured transactions (i.e. large amount of funds that are received in
a single day, but leave the account progressively over a short span of subsequent
days).
Page 10 of 47

3.2. | MO2: ROUND-TRIPPING ACTIVITIES
Round-tripping activities are a series of transactions where original funds are passed through entities but
eventually returned to original entity, with the pass-through activity serving no apparent economic purpose. The
objective is to create the impression that money is derived from legitimate commercial activities.
MO2.1: Suspected money-laundering using round-tripping activities
Company 1, Company 2, Company 3, Company 9 (and previously Company 8) were subsidiaries of a South Asian
Conglomerate Group. All the companies depicted in the diagram were involved in the commodities industry. The
round-tripping transactions occurred within a span of two months.
The bank noticed the round-tripping of funds where funds originating from Company 1, Company 2 and Company
3 were passed through several companies and eventually remitted back to Company 1 and Company 3. The
round-tripping activities resulted in a high turnover of funds for Company 4, Company 5 and Company 6 (i.e.
significant value and volume of transactions passing through the accounts of these companies).
The bank was also unable to corroborate the SOF from Company 2 and Company 3. In addition, Company 6 did
not provide further information and supporting documents for the highlighted transactions. As a result, the
relationships of Company 4, Company 5 and Company 6 with the other companies could not be determined.
Company 1
Incorporated: South-East Asia 1
Company 2 Company 3
UBO: South Asia
Commodities Trading
Incorporated: South-East Asia
Trading of Metals a
Incorporated: South Asia
Export of Metals
UBO: South Asia
Commodities Trading
UBO: South Asia
Commodities Trading
UBO: South Asia
Commodities Trading
aN a
eee mnillion USD 1 million USD 6 million
an | Jan 2016 | Jan 2016
USD 11 milli
Company 4 lon 2016 Company 5
Incorporated: East Asia Incorporated: East Asia
UBO: South Asia UBO: South Asia
Commodities Trading Trading of Metals
USD 20 million USD 7 million USD 9 million
USD 4 million C 6 Feb 2016
Feb 2016 ompany eb 201
Offshore Company
> Location USD 5 million
UBO: South-East Asia 2
and Europe
; Commodities Trading
USD 4 million
USD 3 million USD 9
4 million
Company 7 - company 4 USD 2 Company 9 Company 10
Incorporated: Middle East . hea hon million | Incorporated: East Asia Incorporated: East Asia
UBO: South-East Asia 1
Commodities Trading
Page 11 of 47

Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Trading of Commodities
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country 1 (intermediary companies),
East-Asian country, Middle Eastern country and Offshore Company Locations
(intermediary companies), South-East Asian country 2 and European country
(ultimate beneficial owner)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Red Flags e Round-tripping pattern
e High turn-over of funds within a relatively short period of time without any
plausible explanations
e Unable to corroborate SOF
e Mismatch between transactions and nature of business
° Unclear relationships between “connected” companies
Best Practices e Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
e Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions, where
transactions are not in line with commonly observed transactions and/or
industry practice.
e Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that deviates from declared transaction patterns of
the customers.
MO2.2: Suspected round-tripping
Company - 3, Company 4, and Company 5, which opened USD Bank accounts in a Singapore, had the same
beneficial owner from a Central-Asian country. Company 3 purportedly purchased Company 6, a subsidiary of
Company 4. The acquisition of Company 6 was funded by remittances from Company 1 (USD 5 million) and
Company 2 (USD 8 million) to Company 3 in the month of March 2016. Company 3 paid the purchase price to
Company 4 in two instalments; USD 8 million on 15 March 2016 and USD 5 million on 29 March 2016. Upon
receiving the respective instalments, Company 4 remitted the funds (USD 8 million on 16 March 2016 and USD
5 million on 30 March 2016) to Company 5 for the “repayment of loans”. Thereafter, on 17 March 2016 and 5
April 2016, Company 5 remitted USD 6.7 million and USD 2.2 million respectively to Company 2.
The bank noticed the round-tripping transaction pattern where the SOF originating from Company 2 and
Company 1 were flowing through the accounts of Company 3, Company 4 and Company 5, which were controlled
by the same beneficial owner, and the funds were eventually remitted back to Company 2. Funds were also
quickly remitted out of the accounts, typically within a few days of receiving the funds, and the SOF from
Company 2 and 1 could not be corroborated.
While the customer provided loan agreements and contract relating to the sale and purchase of Company 6 to
substantiate the transactions, it did not address concerns around the funds being transferred between different
entities controlled by the same beneficial owner.
In addition, the bank noted that the transaction history of Company 3, Company 4 and Company 5 did not reflect
typical business activity/operations. The name of Company 2 was also substantially similar to an entity based in
North America though it is not the same entity.
Page 12 of 47

Company 1
Offshore Company
Location
USD 5 million
25 March 2016
v
Company 3
a “TT on
Company 2 USD 8 million Incorporated: South-East we.
. i ~ _To be sold toIncorporated: Europe 14 March 2016 Asia a
UBO: Central Asia S
, Other Investment Holding ‘.
Company 6
(Subsidiary
USD 8 million - 15 March 2016
USD 5 million - 29 March 2016
v of 4)
Company 4 Z
Incorporated: South-East 7
USD 6.7 million - 17 March 2016 Asia _-7
-
-
——
USD 2.2 million - 05 April 2016 UBO: Central Asia
Other Investment Holding
USD 8 million - 16 March 2016
USD 5 million - 30 March 2016
v
Company 5
Incorporated: South-East
Asia
UBO: Central Asia
Other Investment Holding
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Investment Holding Company
Funding channel Telegraphic Transfer/Remittance
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country (intermediary companies),
European country (intermediary company), Offshore Company Location (place of
incorporation of Company 1), Central Asian country (ultimate beneficial owner)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Red Flags e Round-tripping pattern
e Pass-through activity
e Unable to corroborate SOF
e Mismatch between transactions and nature of business
° Usage of similar name entities
e Frequent/multiple transaction involving entities with the same beneficial owner
which did not make economic sense
Best Practices e At on-boarding, establish economic rationale of the investment holding
company:
o Incircumstances where the customer is a holding company, the nature of the
business of its subsidiaries should be understood along with the economic
purpose of the holding company.
e Assess and establish the following:
o Establish economic purpose of the underlying transaction;
o Bank request for SOF, economic purpose of transaction and assess underlying
logic of transaction pattern that was observed;
o Assess if the transactions observed commensurate with the business purpose
based on customer's declared business purpose/activities;
o Assess whether there should be an arm's length relationship between related
companies (Legal entities with a shared beneficial owner) involved in the
transaction; and
o Establish the sources of funds.
e Implement systems that allow the bank to observe transaction
behaviour of related entities (including individuals and entities) in a
holistic way.
e Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that fit rapid movement and pass-through activities.
Page 13 of 47

3.3. MO3: USE OF NON-BANK INTERMEDIARIES / PHYSICAL MOVEMENT OF CASH ACROSS
BORDERS
MO3.1: Suspicious use of non-bank intermediaries to make cash deposits
Customers who reside outside of their home country may use money changers or money remittance agencies
(collectively known as MCRAs) to remit/ move funds from their home country to their Singapore private bank
account. The reason often provided by such clients is that they are able to obtain more competitive exchange
rates from MCRAs than from a bank. Foreign MCRAs may also have arrangements with Singapore MCRAs where,
due to offsetting arrangements, they may not even need to send the funds to Singapore, and the only inflow
visible to the Singapore bank is from the MAS-licensed MCRA. As a risk-mitigation measure, some private banks
require the client to provide the documentary trail showing a remittance from the client's local bank account to
the MCRA. Where banks detect inflows from an MCRA's own account or any account controlled by them, the link
to the actual customer's funds should be established. Such risks are also present in commercial banking.
Company A was a private limited company, in the business of wholesale trade of industrial machinery and
equipment. It was incorporated in South-East Asian country 1 with a beneficial owner from Europe. Company B
was a private limited company, incorporated in the South-East Asian country 1 and in the business of
manufacturing optical instruments and products. Individual P was a money changer from South-East Asian
country 2 who brought the cash physically to Singapore and attempted to make cash deposits into the Singapore
bank accounts of Company A and Company B.
Company A and B, used a South-East Asian country 2 based money changer to make physical cash deposits in
Singapore. As a result, the SOF from the South-East Asian country 2 based money changer to Company A and
B could not be corroborated. The observed activities are also not in line with the usual business practice for
Company A and Company B, especially in this case where Individual P made the physical cash deposit. Regarding
the payment method, Company A explained that the funds were direct payments from their distributors (from
South East Asian country 2) meant for payment of invoices, and that this was the current payment arrangement
with their clients. Company B explained that the goods would be released upon receipt of payment and that
Company B did not have control over their client’s payment mode.
However, both companies were unable to validate that the payments were made in relation to their respective
invoices.
Unidentified Individuals
Represented by
Individual P
Money Changer from
South-East Asia 2
Attempting to make cash deposits into
Company A Company B
Incorporated: South-East Asia 1 Incorporated: South-East Asia 1
UBO: Europe
Manufacturing optical
Wholesale of Industrial instruments
Explained as payment from Explained as payment from
distributors based in South-East distributors based in South-East
Asia 2 for goods sold Asia 2 for goods sold
Page 14 of 47

Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Wholesale Trading and Manufacturing
Funding channel Cash Deposits into current accounts
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country 1 (place of incorporation for
Company A and O), European country (ultimate beneficial owner), South-East Asian
country 2 (Individual P)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts
banks
Red Flags e Deliberate avoidance of traditional banking service without legitimate reasons
e Unable to corroborate SOF
e Unusual transaction behaviour or activity
Best Practices ° Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an
ongoing basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
e Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions, where
transactions are not in line with commonly observed transactions and/or
industry practice. Evaluating the reasonableness of the transactions.
e Obtain reasonable justification for the use of cash deposits rather than
remittance via the banking system.
e Transaction monitoring systems should calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that does not commensurate with the Customer’s
common observed and/or declared transaction activities (in this case, cash
deposits versus remittance)
MO3.2: Suspicious use of non-bank intermediaries to remit money / remittance within Singapore
Company A, an Exempted Private Limited Company (EPC) incorporated in South-East Asian country 1, was an
agent in the distribution of tobacco products in South-East Asian country 1, primarily selling to authorised retail
outlets, such as convenience stores and supermarkets. Company A operates a SGD account and a USD account
with the bank and transactions in the accounts were mostly inward or outward remittances and cheques received
or drawn. Company B was a South-East Asian country 2 based customer of Company A.
The bank observed high value cash deposits (approximately SGD 880,000 in total) into Company A’s Singapore
bank accounts within a span of five weeks. These cash deposits were explained to be proceeds from the sale of
cigarettes to Company B. As Company A had requested for cash payments and Company B did not have bank
accounts in Singapore, Company B had instructed a money changer in Singapore to deposit the cash into
Company A’s Singapore bank accounts. Thereafter, the funds deposited were remitted to another company in
South-East Asia country 2, which Company A had explained to be its supplier of tobacco products.
Multiple daily cash deposits were made through the money changer in Singapore and the bank was unable to
corroborate the source of the funds deposited by the money changer. In addition, the volume and value of cash
deposits were also not in line with the expected transaction activities of the accounts as declared by Company A
during account opening.
Page 15 of 47

Company B
Customer of Company A
Based in South-East Asia 2
PT Money Changer in
i
weeks.
Company B had instructed the money changer to
transfer quantum of between SGD 50,000 to SGD
350,000 totaling 60 transfers within a span of five
Company A
Incorporated: South-East Asia 1
; UBO: South-East Asia 1
Singapore Wholesale trade in food, drink &
tobacco.
‘
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Wholesale Trading and Retail
Funding channel Inward remittance
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account, money changer), South-East Asian country 1 (place of
incorporation for Company A, ultimate beneficial owner), South-East Asia country 2
(Company B)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by
banks
Current Accounts, Deposit taking
Red Flags Deliberate avoidance of traditional banking service without legitimate reasons
Unable to corroborate SOF
Structuring of transactions
Mismatch between transactions and nature of business
Best Practices Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
Obtain information about customer’s intended transaction activities at
account opening and at periodic reviews (where appropriate).
Transaction monitoring system should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that do not commensurate to the customer’s
intended transaction activities; and
o Flag repeated transactions within a short timeframe from the same remitter,
which add up to large amounts.
Obtain reasonable justification for the use of cash deposits rather than
remittance via the banking system.
Page 16 of 47

3.4. MO4: HIDDEN RELATIONSHIPS
General observations: In recent investigations into the market manipulation of shares prices for Blumont Group
Ltd, Asiasons Capital Limited and LionGold Corp Ltd, the MAS and Commercial Affairs Department (CAD)
uncovered a web of manipulative trades carried out in more than 180 trading accounts. While these trading
accounts belonged to 59 individuals or corporate nominees and were serviced by 20 trading representatives, the
accounts were essentially controlled by two individuals. Therefore, the issues of undisclosed relationships and
concealment of beneficial ownerships are not unique to the banking industry.
MO4.1: Use of nominee shareholders
Company A had a private banking account in Singapore. The beneficial owner of Company A resided in a South-
East Asian country 1 and operated a textile business in South-East Asian country 1. The authorised signatory to
the private banking account resided in South-East Asian country 2. At the point of on-boarding, due diligence,
which included the verification of the ownership structure, was performed. It was subsequently noted that the
authorised signatory was a shareholder of a food and beverages business in South-East Asian country 2, which
is majority-owned by a national (Individual X) from South-East Asian country 2.
The bank monitored the transactions in the account as part of ongoing monitoring. During the review of the
funds flow within the account, the bank noted several red flags:
e Transfers were made to/from Company A’s account with Company B, Company C and Company D, which
were domiciled in South-East Asian country 2. The beneficial owner of Company A does not have any known
businesses in the same South-East Asian country 2 as well. There were no plausible reasons for the transfers
as the companies to which funds were transferred to were not related to Company A, the beneficial owner
of Company A or the authorised signatory to Company A’s private banking account.
e Deposits made into Company A’s private banking account included the deposit of personal funds such as
casino winnings of Individual X. The funds were noted as repayment of investment capital provided by
Individual X (based on a disposition against a transaction monitoring alert).
e The bank conducted an in depth review into the account and established that Company B, Company C and
Company D had a common beneficial owner who was domiciled in South East Asia country 2 (Individual X).
It was also established that the personal funds deposited into Company A’s private banking account were
from entities affiliated to Individual X.
e Individual X did not play any role to the operation of Company A’s private banking account.
e The bank’s Relationship Manager mainly met and dealt with the authorised signatory to the private banking
account instead of the beneficial owner to Company A.
e The relationship between the beneficial owner to Company A and the authorised signatory to the private
banking account could not be corroborated by research in the public domain.
The above observations led the bank to conclude that Individual X may be the hidden beneficial owner to the
private banking account.
Page 17 of 47

South-East Asia 1
Funds flow
Singapore Company B
Private Bank j—- 7
Beneficial Owner of
Company A |
— J
CompanyA}| — —-—-—-— —P
—4 CompanyC
| Hidden Beneficial Owner
| A
|
——— Company D
Authorized Signatory Company A
South-East Asia 2 South-East Asia 2
Legal Entity Type PIC
Industry Company A: Textile; Companies B, C, D: Food and Beverages
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country 1 (beneficial owner to Company
A), South-East Asian country 2 (authorised signatory, Company B, Company C,
Company D, hidden beneficial owner), Offshore Company Location (place of
incorporation of Company A)
Relevance Private Banking, Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Private Banking services (cash account, investment services, custody)
banks
Red Flags Hidden common ultimate beneficial owner or overly complex relationship
Mismatch between transactions and nature of business
Unable to corroborate SOF
Co-mingling of business and personal funds (casino winnings)
Unable to establish relationship between the beneficial owner and authorised
signatory of the company.
Best Practices e Relationship manager should generally have contact with the beneficial
owner of an account.
e Understand the rationale for the appointment of authorised signatories,
where they appear to be unrelated to the company’s business
operations or ownership.
e Banks should consider the use of data analytics to detect hidden
relationships.
MO4.2: Complex structures and nominee shareholders involving listed companies
A PIC account with a private bank is understood to be owned by three listed companies in a North-Asian country
together with the founder of these companies. The complex ownership structure involved at least two layers of
intermediary companies (incorporated in multiple offshore company locations) between the PIC and the
respective ultimate beneficial owners.
Through the bank’s enhanced due diligence procedures, it was ascertained that the intermediate companies
linked to the founder were held by nominee shareholders through companies that were incorporated in multiple
jurisdictions. No plausible reason was provided to explain the use of nominee shareholders and complex
structure. Moreover, the founder requested a sole signatory for the PIC and that that the signatory be an
individual within the founder's family office.
Page 18 of 47

The bank’s enquiries on commingling of funds between public listed companies and the PIC were responded to
with vague explanations which could not be corroborated.
Moreover, the bank was unable to corroborate the existence of the pooled investment via the PIC against public
disclosure by the listed companies despite the material size of the investments. The structure appears to facilitate
the listed company funds being used to further the founder's private investment objectives, and/or potential
siphoning off of funds from the listed companies. The complex structure provided very limited visibility to the
actual management of the listed companies and the market regarding the nature and performance of these
investments.
Founder
Company
Company
Company
Listed Co #1 Listed Co #2 Listed Co #3
Company Company Company
+
Company Company Company
Company Company Company
Legal Entity Type PIC, Listed Company
Industry Manufacturing (refers to ultimate beneficial owner)
Funding channel Not applicable
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), multiple Offshore Company Locations (place of
incorporation of PIC and intermediary companies), North-Asian country (ultimate
beneficial owner)
Relevance Private Banking
Services provided by
banks
Private Banking services (cash account, investment services, custody)
Red Flags e Hidden or overly complex relationships
e __ Lack of disclosure for public interest entity
e _Commingling of personal and corporate funds
Best Practices
opinions.
Policies and procedure surrounding complex structures:
o Develop and use internal definitions for complex ownership structures to
ensure customers with these structures are subject to greater scrutiny and
higher risk classification
Additional due diligence may come in the form of legal or other expert
Page 19 of 47

3.5. MO5: EMERGING RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH PRIVATE INVESTMENT FUNDS
Private banks generally endorse a universe of funds to support the provision of advisory services provided by a
private bank (names for this universe include ‘offer universe’ and ‘approved product list’). Due diligence is
generally conducted by the bank in respect of an offer universe to support the bank’s recommendations in respect
of such investments. When providing custody services involving Private Investment Funds (PIFs) independently
set up by a client, a bank may not have conducted any due diligence on the PIF as no advisory services may
have been provided in conjunction with the custody service. In addition, banks do not have immediate access to
information as to how a PIF is operated or invested. Therefore, when custody services for clients are provided in
relation to PIFs, there is a risk that the asset could be a smokescreen utilised by criminals to layer funds through
banking services.
In considering this risk, the Legal Persons WG observed that it would be highly unlikely that a client would look
to banks to take custody of funds with zero value in account statements. To hold a PIF in custody, a bank requires
an International Securities Identification Number (ISIN)° and a value. Operations teams in banks generally
corroborate the fund value through a hierarchy of sources. For example, providers of valuations for funds
approved by a regulatory body can be typically corroborated through well-known channels like Clearstream or
Euroclear. The Legal Persons WG, through investigation of current operational practices, found that a small
percentage of values came from other sources, e.g. fund services providers in lesser encountered offshore
jurisdictions. Therefore, where valuations are provided by sources that could be less reliable, this should drive
further due diligence and assessment as to the credibility of the source and/or reassessment by the bank as to
whether to accept the PIF as a custody asset.
MOS5.1: Fund Custody
Public officials acting on behalf of a Government Fund misrepresented to its auditors that missing funds from
capital raising of the Government Fund were invested in a PIF through an offshore subsidiary. The holding in the
PIF was custodised in a private bank in Singapore. The private bank provided a valuation on its bank statement
equal to the value of the missing funds.
The private bank in Singapore, where the PIF investment was held, had no visibility on the legitimacy or otherwise
of the investment it held in custody for its client and relied on valuations directly provided, or arranged, by the
public officials. The purported investment was worth considerably less than the amount shown in a fraudulent
valuation report provided by the public officials to the auditors.
Legal Entity Type Ostensible Government linked entity/PIF
Industry Government
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country (Government Fund), Offshore
Company Location (PIF, subsidiary of Government Fund)
Relevance Private Banking
Services provided by | Private Banking services (cash, investment, custody)
banks
Red Flags e PIF is not known to the bank and/or its valuation source not from well-known
regulated valuation channels or from an independent party.
e There is adverse information relating to the funds and/or its management.
e The investments are not in line with the net worth of the client.
The underlying investments of the PIF and their value, where known, are unusual
in nature or not substantiated.
e Lack of corroborative information on PIF investment held in custody.
Best Practices e In providing custody services in relation to PIFs, banks should apply a
‘know your security’ process using a risk-based approach, particularly
where the PIF is outside the bank's own offer universe.
e The source of valuation can be a key factor for assessing the need for
further due diligence and assessment (other factors can _ include
consideration of whether associated parties of the fund structure (e.g fund
manager/fund administrator/fund auditor) are regulated and supervised for Anti-
Money Laundering/Countering the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT)
requirements in line with FATF Standards.) Typical reliable valuation sources are
from banks and fund administration arms of banks that are subject to and
5 An ISIN is a 12-digit alphanumeric code used worldwide to identify specific securities such as bonds, stocks (common and preferred), futures,
warrant, rights, trusts, commercial paper and options. It is registered in (and therefore can be verified against) the ISIN organisation database.
Page 20 of 47

supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements in line with FATF
Standards, recognised exchanges or recognised depositories that are subject to
regulatory disclosure requirements. Other valuation sources may trigger a
process to request the client to justify the fund structure and Net Asset Value
(NAV), for example, through procuring:
o The fund documentation and/or
o The current asset holdings of the fund and their component valuations, and
if unusual, the basis of the valuations.
It is noted though that the fund itself is not the client and there may be limitations
on how much access the client may have to the current operational details of the
fund. Nevertheless, unsatisfactory replies or information would trigger a
consideration of whether a STR should be filed and/or if the bank should accept
the fund as a custody asset.
MOS5.2: Use of funds to bypass bank’s Customer Identification Program (CIP) and KYC requirements
A private bank in Singapore provides credit facilities to Private Equity Fund Managers, whereby the credit facilities
will form a bridging loan between the funding of investments and the calling of capital from private equity
investors, which is also known as the Private Equity Capital Call (PECC). The Singapore bank’s policy requires
full identification and verification of beneficial owners to be performed on private investors with 25 percent or
more participation rates in the PIF. It was detected during the KYC process that private equity investors
attempted to mask their identities and participation rates through the use of different PICs (Private Equity
Investors 1, 2 and 3), where each PIC had less than 25 percent participation rate in the PIF.
Had the business relationship been established and credit facility approved, the funds could be transferred to the
Private Equity Fund Manager’s investment account with another bank outside of Singapore. Another risk
associated with the credit facility is the source of repayment transferred to the Fund Manager could be from
other third-party other than the investors identified during the account opening.
Through the use of legal entity type, a beneficial owner could under-declare or mask his ownership to the Fund
structure.
Private Equity
Fund Manager
|
Private Equity Fund Account 1
Credit Loan granted to Fund
| Manager for Capital Call
| | | | Private Bank, Singapore
Account 2
Investment Account
Bank Y, Offshore
Private Equity Private Equity Private Equity Private Equity a
Investor 1 Investor 2 Investor 3 Investor 4
(20 per cent) (20 per cent (20 per cent) (40 per cent)
|
Legal Entity Type Collective Investment Scheme
Industry Financial Services
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (Account 1 bank account), Offshore Company Location (Fund / Fund
Manager) and Singapore or Offshore Company Location (Account 2 bank account)
Relevance Private Banking / Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Credit Facility
banks
Page 21 of 47

Red Flags Use of complex structure or shell companies with no reasonable explanation.
Absence of reputable regulated fund manager and/or administrator in the fund
structure
PICs investing into fund where the participation rate is below the threshold
adopted by the financial institution for the purposes of Know-Your-Client (KYC).
Hidden or overly complex relationships
Adverse news on fund managers and significant investors
Incoming funds from third parties (i.e. funds are not from any of the private
equity investors)
Best Practices Undertake appropriate level of due diligence: On parties to the collective
investment schemes (such as fund managers, authorised signers, beneficial
owner), to perform appropriate risk based diligence on the investors of the PIF
(e.g. for higher risk customers, investors with a lower participation rate should
be identified and verified, ongoing screening to be performed and appropriate
senior management approvals to be obtained).
Where possible, reconciliation is performed against all incoming funds
from the investors to ensure that they are consistent with the list of
investors. Clarifications are to be sought if the remitter is not on the list
of investors.
Obtain declaration letter from Private Equity Fund Manager to confirm
compliance towards applicable FATF equivalent AML rules and
regulations and commitment to provide names and identifier (e.g. date
of birth and nationality) of investors with vested interest of 10% or more
in the Fund for the purpose of name screening, where applicable.
Assessment of KYC practices and controls of fund manager and/or
administrator with a focus on independent assessment of these controls
where the fund manager and or administrator are not operating or
licenced in a jurisdiction with an appropriate level of compliance with
FATF standards.
Assessment should also consider if the fund manager is regulated in the
jurisdiction where it is registered.
Page 22 of 47

3.6. MO6: USE OF SIMILAR NAME ENTITIES
Front companies may be set up, without significant assets or business activity, by criminals using similar names
to establish entities which give an impression of legitimacy. These companies may produce fake documents or
transactions similar to a normal business to allow transfers of funds through these front companies.
MO6.1: Use of legal persons with names similar to established Legal Persons
A private company, Front Co 1, was set up in an offshore company location with a name which closely resembled
a well-known government fund, Fund A. In opening a private bank account in Singapore, a foreign public official
who was the sole signatory on account misrepresented to the private bank that the company is a subsidiary of
Fund A through an intermediate private company, PIC1.
A Certificate of Incumbency was provided for Front Co 1, which confirmed its shareholding by an entity bearing
the same name as PIC1. A corporate certificate was also provided evidencing a board resolution signed by its
sole director, D1, of Front Co 1 who was an associate of the foreign public official. The board resolution conferred
authority on a single signatory (also D1) to open an account with the private bank in Singapore. However, the
ultimate beneficial owners of Front Co 1 were in fact the associates of the foreign public official.
Correspondence received by the private bank in Singapore were noted as being sent from the personal email
account of D1. D1 also provided to the private bank in Singapore seemingly legitimate joint-venture commercial
agreements to support funds flow into the account from another government fund, Fund B. However, the bank
noted that the joint-venture arrangement was not reflected in the disclosure documents of a public offer capital
raising of Fund B which was just recently concluded. Legal agreements were provided to support the substantial
fund flow into the account. However, the commercial arrangement with the account holder (Fund A) was not
disclosed in the public offering memorandum for the debt capital raising from which the funding was derived,
despite the material amount involved. Funds derived from the capital raising were transferred to the Front Co 1
at the private bank in Singapore. Shortly after, D1 instructed the private bank to pay out the funds to an external
offshore account held by a company with a name which closely resembles a global fund manager name, another
front company, but which was controlled by the perpetrators.
FundA
PIC1
Subsidiary of Fund A
X
Front Coi
UBO: Associates of public official
Front Co 2
Fund B Similar name with Global Fund
Similar name with Fund A Manager
Public Capital Raising Public Capital funds
transferred to perpetrators
Page 23 of 47

Legal Entity Type Ostensible Government linked entity
Industry Government Fund
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), Offshore Company Locations (place of incorporation of
Front Co 1)
Relevance Private Banking
Services provided by | Private Banking accounts (cash, investment, custody)
banks
Red Flags e Instructions received from a personal email account instead of a government
email account, where the signatory was a public official and where the account is
supposed to be government linked and for government purposes
e A single and seemingly self-appointed authorised signatory for a large
government linked account
e A large government linked entity seeking a private banking serviced account
instead of a corporate or institutional serviced account
e Inconsistencies in the information relating to purpose of the account and source
of funding
e Use of influential names (government linked entities) where the link with the high
profile parent entity cannot be directly validated
e Sole signatory to the bank account was the sole signatory of the corporate
certificate provided to verify beneficial ownership
Best Practices e = As part of private bank's account terms and conditions, client reporting
and overall services and internal controls are designed to support
individuals and their personal investment structures. Accounts for
operating entities in private banks should be carefully assessed for
financial crime and other risks. Senior Management approval and/or
higher client AML risk classification is warranted.
e Internal assessments should be made to determine whether to accept
the relationship, considering (as applicable):
o Understand why a company would want to make investments through a
private bank account instead of a corporate or institutional bank account;
o The manner in which the account will be operated including the number of
signatories, and whether and how the activity is visible to its governing body
or office/committee in charge of investments; and
o Whether the private bank's AML monitoring program is suitable to monitor
the transaction flows of an operating company, for example, those that exhibit
operational transactions or high third party payment flows.
e Private banks should also have in place ongoing client review
frameworks which are effective in detecting irregular changes in account
behaviour.
MO6.2: Use of Legal Persons with names similar to established Legal Persons
Client A, who opened a PIC account at a private bank, has an operating company in the manufacturing business
that has suppliers in a North-Asian country.
The bank noted that Client A made payments to three suppliers in a North-Asian country from his PIC. Client
explained that due to a mismatch of cash flow in his operating company, he had to pay these suppliers through
his PIC first and obtain reimbursement from his operating company subsequently. However, client’s PIC
subsequently received reimbursements through three PIC accounts that were opened with the private bank which
had names identical to the three suppliers.
According to the bank’s records, the beneficial owner for all three PICs is Client A’s wife. While Client A explained
that such fund flow was due to accounting purpose for his operating company, there was no reasonable
explanation as to why the names of the PICs were identical to the suppliers in the North-Asian country and the
SOF from the PICs. The bank suspected that these transactions may have been performed to give a consistent
picture to the company auditors that the payments from the company were being sent directly to the suppliers.
Page 24 of 47

Funds flow
PIC $1,$2,S3
UBO: ClientA v Suppliers in North Asian country
PIC $1
UBO: Client A’s Wife
Operating Co PIC S2
UBO: Client A UBO: Client A’s Wife
Vv
Manufacturing Business
PIC S3
UBO: Client A’s Wife
Funds flow
Legal Entity Type PIC
Industry Manufacturing
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country (operating company), North-
Asian country (suppliers), Offshore Company Location (PIC)
Relevance Private Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Red Flags e Usage of similar name entities
e _Commingling of personal and corporate funds
Best Practices e Transaction monitoring system should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that capture operational transactions of private
banking customers (e.g. third party and pass through payments).
Page 25 of 47

3.7. MO7: TAX MOTIVATED ACTIVITIES
MO7.1: Potentially bogus trading company
Client A opened a PIC account at a private bank. Over time, the bank observed that she used the PIC for the
purchase of raw material from her father's company in a neighbouring country and subsequently received
payments in the same account from buyers for the resale of the raw material.
The client explained that the company was an exclusive agent for her father's operating company but the bank
understood that the PIC had no operating presence or employees.
It is possible that through this arrangement, profits are being accumulated offshore by purchasing material from
her father at low prices thus reducing corporate profits at the operating location and capturing the residual profit
within the PIC account offshore as illustrated below.
For Illustration purpose, Assume:
Usual Selling price: USD 1 million
Operating Co
!
Cost: USD 0.2 million .
!
BO: Father of Client A
Sale of raw materials
ry
Sells to PIC for USD 0.5 million Pays Op Co
Recognises profit of USD 0.3 million USD 0.5 million
Vv
Offshore PIC
UBO: ClientA
“exclusive agent” of Operating Co
A
Sells to buyer for USD 1 million Pays Op Co
Recognises profit of USD 0.5 million USD 1 million
Vv
Buyers of raw materials
Legal Entity Type PIC
Industry Trading
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), Offshore Company Location (PIC), South-East Asian
country (location of operating company)
Relevance Private Banking
Services provided by
banks
Current Accounts, Deposit taking
Red Flags Deviation from purpose of account
Trading company with no physical presence or employees
Commingling of personal and corporate funds
Best Practices Transaction monitoring system should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that capture operational transactions of private
banking customers (e.g. third party and pass through payments).
Page 26 of 47

MO7.2: Tax motivated transactions
A corporate account was opened at a private bank for the management of investible funds of an operating
company that was conducting business in North-Asian country, a country with a high tax rate. The founder (who
is also the major shareholder of the company), had an individual account with the private bank.
The bank noted that the corporate account made payments described as dividends to the founder’s individual
account. The funds were subsequently transferred back to the corporate account as a loan and which the founder
received interest payments for.
The underlying transactions deviated from purpose of account as funds were used to pay dividends instead of
management of investible funds. Such arrangement between the corporate and individual account also suggest
possible tax motivated transactions involving a higher tax location as interest payments for repayment of loan
reduced assessable income for the operating company.
Legal Entity Type Operating company
Industry Technology
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), North-Asian country (place of company operations)
Relevance Private Banking
Services provided by
banks
Current Accounts, Deposit taking
Red Flags Unusual transaction behaviour or activity
Deviation from purpose of account
Co-mingling of personal and business funds
Bank account of the company is located in a separate jurisdiction from its business
activities
Company does not have any commercial interest in the jurisdiction in which the
bank account is located
Best Practices In line with The Association of Banks in Singapore (ABS) Guidelines on
AML/CFT, banks should devise their own list of jurisdictions deemed to
be "high risk" either from a high tax risk or high tax rate perspective.
Seek independent opinions from tax experts.
Transaction monitoring system should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that capture operational transactions of private
banking customers (e.g. third party and pass through payments).
Page 27 of 47

4. PROFESSIONAL INTERMEDIARIES
Many professional intermediaries are key to the setting up of Legal Persons, as well as the provision of ongoing
corporate secretarial services, and hence form the first line of interaction with the Legal Persons. Hence, it would
also be useful to tap on their insights to understand the risk characteristics of Legal Persons.
4.1. Law FIRMS
Legal practitioners in Singapore, like banks, are subject to requirements in relation to performance of client® due
diligence for the purposes of preventing ML/TF.
In the context of Legal Persons, it is not uncommon for law firms to act on behalf of Legal Persons, or be asked
to assist with the establishment of Legal Persons or arrangements. Legal practitioners, when performing client
due diligence are required to identify beneficial owners of the Legal Persons, which includes individuals who
exercise effective control over a legal entity or legal arrangement. It is also noted that law firms in Singapore
which help their customers set up Legal Persons in Singapore would also have to comply with the relevant
AML/CFT obligations applicable to CSPs.
Legal Persons misuse typology in law firm: Provision of legal assistance to establish Legal Persons
for possible ML/TF purposes
Client A meets with Solicitor A requesting legal advice and assistance with potential litigation because of a dispute
with a business based in the jurisdiction of Solicitor A's practice. No documents are exchanged at the meeting
but Client A describes the facts surrounding the dispute. After the meeting, and in accordance with Solicitor A's
procedures for on-boarding new clients, Solicitor A identifies the beneficial owners of Client A and performs
screening and nothing appears amiss.
Client A then proceeds to request for the terms of engagement and to set up a retainer arrangement with Solicitor
A, and wires monies into Solicitor A's client account on account of costs. Shortly after, Client A writes to Solicitor
A to notify Solicitor A that the claim has been settled. Solicitor A has not carried out work for the client, but a
small fee for the initial time spent is deducted. Client A requests for the balance to be sent back to it, but to a
different account from which the monies were originally wired from Client A.
Unbeknownst to Solicitor A, Client A had made up the existence of the claim. Despite the conduct of AML/KYC
checks on Client A by Solicitor A, no adverse information was identified. If Solicitor A had returned the balance
of the monies to Client A, it would have facilitated a sham-litigation money laundering. However, any delay in
returning the balance of the monies may tip-off Client A.
Legal Entity Type Company
Industry Not applicable
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), Offshore Company Location (place of incorporation of
Client A)
Relevance Law Firms
Services provided Legal and litigation advice
Red Flags e Pass-through transfer to unknown account
e Instruction was cancelled without plausible explanation
e Receipt of inordinate sum as retainer amount for advice
e Time lapse between instruction to act in respect of claim and settlement appeared
implausible
To request to sight documentation relating to purported claim
e Be alert to indicia for triggering of suspicion
e Communication with Finance department and not to facilitate transfers
to unknown account without plausible reasons
e Consider if the matter is unusual in the ordinary course of business, and
if this would give rise to a suspicion of money laundering. If so, to
consider if any reporting obligations arise.
On an ongoing basis, legal practitioners should continually assess and consider whether the circumstances
surrounding their engagement by Legal Persons may give rise to any reasons for suspicion of ML/TF. In this
regard, legal practitioners should be aware of the extent that legal privilege provides a defence from non-
disclosure of suspicious transactions. In particular, legal privilege may be overridden by any crime or fraud
Best Practices
5_aw firms often use the word “Client”. The word “Client” and “Customer” are used interchangeably in this Paper.
Page 28 of 47

observed by legal practitioners in the course of their employment. Legal practitioners should continually review
the information they possess to consider if any reporting obligations arises.
4.2. PROFESSIONAL ADVISORS
Professional advisors, like consulting companies and auditing firms, also observe typologies of ML/TF risk linked
to Legal Persons in the course of their work. Professional advisors such as professional accountants have to
abide by Ethics Pronouncement (EP 200), which provides AML/CFT requirements and guidelines in Singapore.
4.3. COMPANY SERVICE PROVIDERS
CSPs have been identified as a sector with higher inherent money laundering risk in Singapore given that it may
be abused by international customers through the set up of complex and opaque structures for illicit purposes.
CSPs in Singapore are supervised by Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA)’ and are subject
to requirements in relation to performance of client® due diligence for the purposes of preventing ML and TF. This
includes requirements to obtain beneficial ownership information of Legal Persons. CSPs would also have to take
the appropriate measures to comply with the relevant regulations under the United Nations Act, including the
United Nations (Sanctions - Democratic People’s Republic of Korea) Regulations.
Legal Person misuse typology in CSPs: Dual nationalities
Client A, who is a foreign passport holder of Country A, approached a CSP to incorporate a company in an
Offshore Company Location. After a period of time, Client A requested the dissolution of the overseas company.
At the same time, he requested to incorporate a South-East Asian company with similar name as the overseas
company with his foreign passport issued by another country, Country B.
Legal Entity Type Limited liability company
Industry Trading
Funding channel Not applicable
Jurisdiction South-East Asian country (company to be incorporated), Offshore Company Location
(company that was previously incorporated)
Relevance CSP
Services provided Incorporation of a company
Red Flags e The client did not have any association with Singapore
e Lack of a reasonable explanation on the use of another passport for the
incorporation of another company
e Usage of similar name entities
Best Practices e Inquire the reason of the liquidation of the overseas company and the
establishment of a Singapore company with a similar name.
e Inquire the reason for the use of passports issued by two different
countries, record details of both passports where possible and consider
the risks of both jurisdictions.
e Consider rejecting the request for new company incorporation and report
the case to relevant authorities via an STR in the absence of a satisfactory
response provided by the client.
Managing ML/TF risks in the context of CSPs
The majority of the CSPs’ involvements with Legal Persons occur during the incorporation of a company (Day 1),
the change of a company’s structure (ad-hoc) and during the filing of an annual return (periodic basis). As such,
the on-boarding stage presents highest ML/TF risks to CSPs. The following are examples of best practices shared
by the CSP members to mitigate the associated ML/TF risks.
? The Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority (ACRA) is the national regulator of business entities, public accountants and corporate service
providers in Singapore.
® CSPs often use the word “Client”. The word “Client” and “Customer” are used interchangeably in this Paper.
Page 29 of 47

Process Best Practices shared by participants
Identification and
verifications of
controllers, beneficial
owners,
shareholders,
directors and/or
authorised
signatories
For companies with nominee directors, some example of additional controls in
place include ensuring that the financial accounts of the companies are prepared
by the CSPs or are audited by a Certified Public Accounting Firm.
If original documents are not sighted by CSPs during the client due diligence
process, CSPs can accept a copy of the document that is certified to be a true
copy by a suitably qualified person (e.g. a notary public, a lawyer or certified
public or professional accountant).
Screening of
controllers, beneficial
owners,
shareholders,
directors and/or
authorised
signatories
Screening databases such as Lexis Nexis, World Check, Dow Jones and Google
are being utilized by CSPs during the on-boarding process to identify risk
indicators (e.g. adverse news, Politically Exposed Person).
Understanding the
customer’s purpose
of setting up an
account and/or
nature of business,
controllers/ ultimate
beneficiary owners.
Interviews are conducted by CSPs to understand the proposed business
operations and the purpose of setting up the company in Singapore.
Additional insights to CSPs in
determining the risk level associated with the client, such as the geographical
information from the client may provide
locations of their client’s existing main customers and suppliers, the beneficial
owner’s occupation and SOF for capital injection. For significant share
allotments, there are CSPs that may request bank statement records or bank-in
slips for monies injected into the company account from the client.
Procedures on
Suspicious Activities
Indicators/ red flags/
thresholds
Formalised procedures on reporting suspicious activities to relevant government
agencies through STRs are established.
Page 30 of 47

5. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A range of themes emerged in the sharing of Legal Persons risk typologies ranging from operating companies
co-mingling funds, PICs being utilised to construct complex structures to facilitate market abuse, as well as
private funds being used to mask missing government funds. The Legal Persons WG observed how Legal Persons
had been abused to facilitate ML and TF risks in a myriad of fast evolving ways
Besides the best practices identified for each MO above, we have identified some key recommendations, for
industry, law enforcement and regulators.
Recommendation 1
e The filing of STRs via the Suspicious Transaction Report Online Lodging System (STROLLS) follows a
process that currently does not provide standardised data for further analysis. The data quality does
not allow for deeper STR analysis, and it is difficult to draw lessons from the data collected.
e Data collection during STR filing via STROLLS and in MAS annual data collection from banks to ascertain
ML/TF risks:
> STR filing via STROLLS should generate a set of standardised data points across all filing entities,
including the type of filing entity (e.g. commercial bank, private bank). Free text information, while
useful in certain circumstances, should be minimised when it comes to the collection of data for
analysis. The data collected should be standardised and sufficiently granular.
> Standardised risk indicia could be collected during the MAS annual data collection from banks.
At the time of writing this paper, we note both CAD and MAS have taken steps to standardise data sets in STR
and annual data collection respectively. CAD is also in the process of updating and providing additional guidance
on use of the STR forms.
Recommendation 2
e Collaboration between the CAD, MAS and the banks on data analytics:
> Regulators and relevant authorities to share standardised data sets and risk analytics with industry
participants to help participants enhance their risk based AML/CFT programmes.
> It would also be beneficial to collaborate on existing data analytics tools, to hold consultations
between the authorities and the banks on emerging typologies/risks, and to discuss critical data
required by the authorities to improve its intelligence abilities.
> At the time of writing this paper, we note that ACIP has launched a Data Analytics Working Group.
Recommendation 3
e Operational liaison between CAD, MAS, other authorities and entities filing information through STROLLS
or where risks are otherwise detected by law enforcement/regulators:
Banks file STRs via STROLLS whenever there is a suspicion that a transaction may have a background that
warrants filing the STR. However, not all STRs will lead to prosecutions, and the authorities will prioritise
some STRs over others. It may be helpful for there to be more active operational feedback and consultation
with banks not just to achieve greater enforcement success but also to assist banks to determine with more
specificity the nature and source of risk indicators. This would help reporting entities prioritise their risk
focus and commit appropriate resources to identified risk areas.
Recommendation 4
e Central register to capture the beneficial owners of legal entities incorporated in Singapore.
Page 31 of 47

Banks will find it much easier to identify beneficial owners who are a number of levels removed from legal
entities incorporated in Singapore if there was a central registry accessible to them.
Recommendation 5
e Continued training sessions from ACRA will be very welcome. Courses should be conducted to assist
companies to learn and improve their AML/CFT controls and train their personnel.
Such sessions could include the responsibilities of a company’s director and secretary, different legal type,
etc.
Recommendation 6
e A collaboration or common platform between banks and CSPs to share knowledge and AML processes, which
could reduce the time and resources spent by banks on bank account opening because CSPs that tap into
this common platform would be aware of the Customer Due Diligence relevant requirements of banks for
account opening.
Page 32 of 47

6. APPENDICES
APPENDIX A —- LEGAL PERSONS WG MEMBERS AND OTHER CONTRIBUTORS
Banks
Firm Representative
BNP Paribas Andrew Fan
BNP Paribas June Lim
Bank of Singapore Limited Kok Ee Ling
Bank of Singapore Limited Seah Thien Ling
Citibank N.A. Ashlynn Siau
Citibank N.A. Nick Harrison
Citibank N.A. Rashmi Dubier
Citibank N.A. Tong Chi Fai
Credit Suisse AG Celestia Tan
Credit Suisse AG Darryl Tidman
Credit Suisse AG Derrick Ngor
Credit Suisse AG Gina Poh
DBS Bank Ltd Chris Wilson
DBS Bank Ltd Lydia Low
DBS Bank Ltd Winston Lim
The Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation Limited
Beaver Chua
The Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation Limited Grace Ping
The Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation Limited Jesslyn Seah
The Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation Limited Samuel Ong
Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corporation Limited
Boris Walter Bangemann
Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corporation Limited Fairlen Ooi
Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corporation Limited Isabelle Lim Xin Mei
Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corporation Limited Loretta Yuen (Co-Chair)
Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corporation Limited
Ng Yew Mun (Alex)
Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corporation Limited Pradheep Kumar Sampath
Standard Chartered Bank Leong Kok Cheong
Standard Chartered Bank Ricky Chua
UBS AG Christoph Roeder (Ex-Co-Chair)
UBS AG Mabel Ha (Co-Chair)
UBS AG Penny Brown
United Overseas Bank Limited Dharyan Ang
United Overseas Bank Limited Lim Siew Lee
Professional intermediaries
Firm Representative
Baker McKenzie Celeste Ang
Baker McKenzie Stephanie Magnus
Boardroom Limited Tony Seah
Boardroom Limited Victor Lai
contactone Professional Services Tony Koh
Hawksford Singapore Pte. Ltd. Eva Spaete
Hawksford Singapore Pte. Ltd. Suzette Els
KPMG Services Pte. Ltd. Alwyn Loh
KPMG Services Pte. Ltd. Jason Tan
KPMG Services Pte. Ltd. Lem Chin Kok
KPMG Services Pte. Ltd. Melissa Lim
Page 33 of 47

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Anthea Kan
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Germaine Huang
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Denise Lim
Pte. Ltd.
Vodich Management Services
Lau Dong Neng
Government
Firm
Commercial Affairs Department
Monetary Authority of Singapore
APPENDIX B — GLOSSARY
Acronyms Description
ABS The Association of Banks in Singapore
ACIP Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Industry Partnership
ACRA Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority
AML Anti-Money Laundering
AML/CFT Anti-Money Laundering/Countering the Financing of Terrorism
CAD Commercial Affairs Department
CIP Customer Identification Program
CSPs Company Service Providers
CDD Client Due Diligence
EAM External Asset Manager
EP200 Ethics Pronouncement 200: Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of
Terrorism — Requirements and Guidelines For Professional Accountants in Singapore
EPC Exempted Private Limited Company
FATF Financial Action Task Force
ISIN International Securities Identification Number
KYC Know-Your-Client
MAS Monetary Authority of Singapore
MCRA Money Changers or Money Remittance Agencies
ML/TF Money Laundering/Terrorism Financing
MO Modus Operandi
NAV Net Asset Value
NPO Non-Profit Organisation
PECC Private Equity Capital Call
PIC Personal Investment Company
PIF Private Investment Fund
SOF Source of Funds
STRs Suspicious Transaction Reports
STROLLS Suspicious Transaction Report Online Lodging System
UBO Ultimate Beneficial Owner
WG Working Group
Page 34 of 47

APPENDIX C - MODUS OPERANDI
MO 1: Pass-through transactions
MO1.3: Suspected Tax Fraud
Companies A to I were Private Limited Companies incorporated in a South-East Asian country. They appeared to
be part of a larger group of entities, most of them in the mobile phones related industry (wholesale and retail
trade). Between August 2015 and October 2015, Company H had been receiving transfers of about SGD 300,000
on average every month from the tax authorities in relation to tax. This appeared to be related to tax refunds,
which is the net difference between input tax (tax paid for import) and output tax (tax collected from sales).
Around the same period, cash deposits and withdrawals were observed in the Singapore accounts of Companies
A to I.
SOF appeared to be from cash deposits although the actual source of the funds could not be determined. This
could be a possible case of illicit funds comingled with legitimate business funds flow. In the case of Company
G, a total of SGD 19 million were withdrawn (40 withdrawals over 3 months). For Company I, a total of SGD 16
million were withdrawn (33 withdrawals over 1 month).
Pass-through activities were observed in the accounts of Company A, B, C, E and F despite customers declaring
that these companies were wholesale or retail buyers/sellers. The amount of tax refunds the companies had
received appeared to be too large for the size of their business, and hence were not commensurate with the
companies’ business profiles.
Tax Refunds
Companies A, B, C, E, FCash ; SGD 0.3 million /month
asn .| Incorporated: South-East Asia (Aug-Oct 2015)
Deposits Mobile Phone wholesaling and
retailing
Cash
Total fundtransfersto Deposits
CompanyG & H was
y SGD ~34 million J
Cash Withdrawals Company G Company H Company D
SGD 19 million Incorporated: . Incorporated: Incorporated: South-
40 Counts 4=""5 South-East Asia < South-East Asia ” East Asia
Mobile Phone Mobile Phone 3(Jul-Sep 15) related related Mobile Phone related
SGD 16 million : :
33 Counts (2015) : :
v v
SGD 16 million gseceseseeseesee Incorporated: South- Withdrawals ithdrawals
33 Counts East Asia
(Oct 15) Mobile Phone related
Funds were eventually withdrawn in cash mainly from the accounts of Company D, G, H and I.
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Wholesale Trading and Retail Business involving Mobile Phones
Funding channel Physical Cash deposit, Cash Cheques
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank accounts), South-East Asian country (place of incorporation for
Company A to I)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by
banks
Current Accounts, Deposit taking
Red Flags e Mismatch between transactions and nature of business
e Transaction size mismatched to business profile
e Large cash deposits and withdrawals
Best Practices e Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
Page 35 of 47

expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
e Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions and
corroborate customers’ declarations against publicly available
information and / or supporting documents gathered.
e Obtain reasonable justification for the use of cash deposits rather than
remittance via the banking system.
e Implement systems that allow the bank to review transaction behaviour
of related entities (including individuals and entities) in a holistic manner.
e Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
fe) Flag multiple cash withdrawals and/or deposits within a short time-frame;
and
fe) Detect spikes in transaction activity.
MO1.4: Suspected money laundering by passing through large cash amounts
Company A is in the oil and gas industry. It was a private limited company incorporated in a South-East Asian
country with a beneficial owner from the same South-East Asian country. The company’s account was funded by
cash deposits of between USD 2 million and USD 6 million each month. USD is the commonly used currency for
companies in the oil and gas industry and the USD cash deposits were all from one client of Company A for sale
of oil and gas products, according to the invoices provided by Company A.
The cash that was deposited would be quickly transferred to Company A’s accounts with other banks in
Singapore. It was noted that company A’s account was not used for any other transactions related to the
company’s business operations.
USD Cash Deposits Company A Company A
(typically USD 0.3 million- Incorporated: South-East Asia Accounts with other
USD2 million per deposit) Oil and gas banks
Payment for sales of oil
and gas products to
one single company
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Oil and gas
Funding channel Physical Cash deposit in foreign currency
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country (place of incorporation for
company A, ultimate beneficial owner)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Red Flags e Large cash deposits in foreign currency
e Unusual transaction behaviour or activity
e Pass-through activity
Page 36 of 47

e Deviation from purpose of account
Best Practices e Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
° Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions, where
transactions are not in line with commonly observed transactions
and/or industry practice.
e Obtain reasonable justification for the use of cash deposits rather than
remittance via the banking system. In particular where large amounts
and/or foreign currency is involved.
e Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag pass-through transaction patterns.
° Discourage large cash deposits, particularly when it is unusual for a
transaction to be settled in cash by a single party.
MO1.5: Suspected money laundering by the use of a pass-through account
Company A was a company incorporated in a South-East Asian country as a Private Limited Company, and was
active in the import and export of furniture. It had two beneficial owners of North-Asian nationality residing in
North Asia. The company received two large USD remittances from a North Asian company active in the
construction industry, which were remitted onward to two natural persons and three legal entities (all companies)
with accounts in third countries (including one account in North-Asian).
The declared business activity of import/export of furniture was in general not commensurate with large
payments from companies in the construction industry. The bank noticed that the amount received were very
large for a company engaged in the importing and exporting of furniture. Furthermore the ultimate recipients of
the payments, i.e., two natural persons and three legal entities were not in the furniture business.
It was also noted that there was relatively rapid movement of funds (within two weeks) into the account of
Company A and out again to five overseas accounts. The account also showed high turnover and little profit
retention. Funds were received from a legal entity in the construction industry in North-Asian, and went back to
a different North Asian legal entity in the construction industry.
Page 37 of 47

Natural Person A
Account in North America
Unknown relationship
1 Telegraphic Transfer:
USD 0.5 million
Natural Person B
Account in East Asia
> Unknown relationship
1 Telegraphic transfer:
USD 2 million
Company A
Legal Person A Incorporated: South-East Asia Legal Person B
Account in North Asia UBOs: North Asia Account in Africa
Construction Industry Real Estate Company
v2 Telegraphic transfers: Business operation in South- 1 Telegraphic transfer:
USD 6 million (in denomination of East Asia USD 1.5 million
USD 3 million each)
Furniture import and export Legal Person C
company Account in Middle East
Petroleum Industry
1 Telegraphic transfer:
USD 1.5 million
v
Legal Person D
Account in North Asia
Construction Industry
1 Telegraphic transfer:
USD 1 million
The funds moved to individuals/entities in various higher ML/TF risk jurisdictions outside of Asia - Recipients
included entities in Africa and Middle East.
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Import and Export Business
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country (place of incorporation and
operation for Company A), North-Asian country (bank account for Legal Person A
and D, ultimate beneficial owners), North America (bank account for Natural Person
A), African country (bank account for Legal Person B), East-Asian country (bank
account for Natural Person B), Middle East country (bank account for Legal Person
C).
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Red Flags Mismatch between transactions and nature of business
Pass-through activity
Round-tripping pattern
Unusual transaction behaviour or activity
Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available info), discrepancies between the business nature of
the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s economy
and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
e Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions, where
transactions are not in line with commonly observed transactions
and/or industry practice.
° Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag pass-through transaction patterns.
Best Practices
Page 38 of 47

MO1.6: Suspected money-laundering by pass-through activities
Companies X and Y had the same beneficial owner, a national of a South-Asian country. Company Y started off
as an investment holding company, but later expanded into trading in agricultural products. Company X was
active in the import and export of commodities. The companies were in different industries but the transactions
in their accounts were often with the same counterparties (mostly in commodities trading and investment
holding). It was also noted that the major counterparties were different from those declared to the bank (in
relation to key customers and suppliers of Companies X and Y). In addition, the actual transacted volumes and
values of Companies X and Y were much higher than the expected activities declared.
The bank observed that funds were transferred from a third party (Company A) to the accounts of Company X
before they were quickly routed through another third party account (Company B) and the account of Company
Y before being eventually transferred out to other third parties (Companies C and D).
It was also noted that some of the other bank accounts, through which the funds were routed, were held by
companies with common directors and/or signatories as those of Companies X and Y.
Company X Company
Company ______» Incorporated: East Asia —————>
A UBO: South Asia B
_¥
Company Y
Company Company <4——____. Offshore Company Location
D Cc UBO: South Asia
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Trading of Commodities
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), East-Asian country (place of incorporation for Company
X), Offshore Company Location (place of incorporation for Company Y), South-Asian
country (ultimate beneficial owner)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Red Flags e Mismatch between transactions and nature of business
e Pass-through activities
e _Common directors and authorised signatories
Best Practices e Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
Page 39 of 47

o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
e Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions, where
transactions are not in line with commonly observed transactions and/or
industry practice.
e Establish whether transactions were made at arms-length.
e Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that indicate pass-through activities within the
customer group (where the bank manages multiple accounts of the
customer group).
MO1.7: Suspected pass-through of funds
Customer A was a Private Limited Company incorporated in South-East Asian country 1 with the purpose of
investment holding. Company B was incorporated in South-East Asian country 2, and a subsidiary of Customer
A. Company B distributed healthcare products. Both Customer A and Company B were related to Mr X.
Within a short period of time there were rapid movements of funds among the accounts of Customer A, its
subsidiary Company B, and Mr X with no clear commercial purpose. An amount of SGD 1 million from Company
B were temporarily deposited into Customer A’s account under the narrative of ‘loan’. However, a total amount
of SGD 1.2 million were transferred from Customer A to Mr X via cheque in about a week’s time.
The bank was not in a position to validate the rapid movements of funds, wherein Customer A’s account facilitated
pass-through transactions between Company B and Mr X. There were no plausible explanations to (a) why the
funds had to pass-through Customer A’s account and (b) the purpose of the fund transfers to Mr X. The bank
was unable to validate Customer A’s purported ownership of Company B, and the source and legitimacy of the
incoming funds from Company B.
Company B
Customer A
Incorporated: South-East Asia 2 Incorporated in South-East MrX
Subsidiary of Customer A > Asia 1 Personal Account
Investment Holding
Business of distribution of
healthcare products
Cheque to Mr X
1 Mar xx Telegraphic transfer from Company 2,000,000
B
2 Mar xx Transfer from Mr X 50,000
3 Mar xx Cheque to Mr X 3,500,000
1 Apr xx Telegraphic transfer from Company 1,000,000
B with narrative ‘Loan’
2 Apr xx Cheque to Mr X 1,200,000
3 Dec xx Telegraphic transfer to Company B 300,000
Page 40 of 47

Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Investment Holding Company
Funding channel Telegraphic Transfer/Remittance, Cheques
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country 1 (place of incorporation for
Customer A), South-East Asian country 2 (place of incorporation for Company B)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Declared activity did not match transactional behaviour
Rapid Movement of Funds
Pass-through activity
Unclear relationships between connected companies
At account opening, establish economic rationale of the investment
holding company.
e Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions, where
transactions are not in line with commonly observed transactions and/or
industry practice.
e Implement systems that allow the bank to review transaction behaviour
of related entities (including individuals and entities) in a holistic manner
e Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that indicate rapid movement of funds;
o Flag transaction patterns that indicate pass-through activities within the
Customer group (where the bank manages multiple accounts of the
Customer group).
Red Flags
Best Practices
MO 2: Round-Tripping Activities
MO2.3: Suspected money laundering by round-tripping
Company X was a Private Limited Company incorporated in South-East Asian country 1. Companies A and B were
commodities trading companies incorporated in two Offshore Company Locations. The bank accounts of both
Company A and Company B were opened in the same month. The beneficial owners of both companies were
residing and nationals of a South-East Asian country 2. Company A received several transfers from Company X
daily, before transferring the monies in lump sums to Company B. Company B thereafter transferred the funds
to Company X’s bank account in Singapore. Upon receiving the funds from Company B, Company X will remit
the funds to its subsidiaries in South-East Asian country 2.
When enquired, Company X could not provide documents to substantiate their financials. It was observed that
month-end account balances of both Company A and Company B were typically low.
Conflicting information was also observed; Company A’s beneficial owner had explained that Company X’s
subsidiary was a customer of Company A. However, upon further probing by the Relationship Manager, the
beneficial owner said that Company X was the customer instead.
Company A’s beneficial owner claimed that transfers to Company B were for payments to four suppliers based
in South-East Asian country 2 who could not receive USD proceeds in South-East Asian country 2 due to local
regulatory restrictions. Company B was said to have a special arrangement with these suppliers from South-East
Asian country 2.
Page 41 of 47

Company X
Incorporated: South-East Asia 1
Singapore Bank account
Company B
Offshore Company Location
UBO: South-East Asia 2
(Based in South-East Asia 2)
Company A
Offshore Company Location
UBO: South-East Asia 2
(Based in South-East Asia 2)
Pom medics lading Commodities Trading
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Trading of Commodities
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country 1 (place of incorporation for
Company X), Offshore Company Location (place of incorporation for Company A and
B), South-East Asian country 2 (ultimate beneficial owner)
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Red Flags e Round-tripping Pattern
e High turnover of funds/ low account balances
° Dubious relationship between the companies
e) Possible circumvention of currency controls
Best Practices e Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available information), discrepancies between the business
nature of the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s
economy and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
e Where possible, transaction monitoring system should be set to flag
rapid movement, “round-tripping” payments, and_ transactional
behaviour that sweeps accounts almost empty on an ongoing basis.
e Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions, where
transactions are not in line with commonly observed transactions and/or
industry practice.
Page 42 of 47

MO 3: Use of Non-Bank Intermediaries/ Physical movement of cash across borders
MO3.3: Suspected laundering of cash by physical transportation across borders
Company A was an Exempted Private Limited Company (EPC) incorporated in a South-East Asian country 1 in
the construction industry. During a period of five months, Company A received SGD 1.5 million from 72 cash
deposits. The cash deposits were made over the counter or into cash-deposit machines by an individual purported
to be an employee, who brought physical cash from South-East Asian country 2 into Singapore to make the
deposits. The funds were subsequently disbursed from the account via cash cheques to unverifiable individuals.
Remittances were also made to various construction firms from the account.
Cash Deposits via
Over-The-Counter and Cash
Cash deposited by an
individual purported to be an
employee. Ultimate source
P md ae . Cash Cheques
from “construction” clients in
En-cashed by unverifiable individualv
deposit machine
SGD 1.5 million; 72 counts
South-East Asian country 2 SGD 500K; multiple counts
and the cash was brought
into South-East Asian
country 1 physically.
Com
Company 1 Company 4
Incorporated: South-East Asia 1 Incorporated: South-East Asia 1
UBO: South-East Asia 1 y UBO: South-East Asia 1
Construction Industry Company A Construction Industry
SGD 200K; 4 telegraphic transfers Te eee SGD 100K; 2 telegraphic transfers
Asia 1
Company 2 UBO: South-East Asia 1 Company 5
Incorporated: South-East Asia 1 Construction Industry Incorporated: South-East Asia 1
UBO: South-East Asia 1 UBO: South-East Asia 1
Construction Industry Construction Industry
SGD 20K; 1 telegraphic transfer SGD 100K; 2 telegraphic transfers
Numerous Entities
Company 3 ; Incorporated: South-East Asia 1
Incorporated: South-East Asia 1 UBO: South-East Asia 1
Construction Industry Construction Industry
SGD 100K; 2 telegraphic transfers SGD 1 million; multiple counts
Legal Entity Type Private Limited Company
Industry Construction Industry
Funding channel Physical Cash deposit and withdrawal
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), South-East Asian country 1 (place of incorporation for
beneficial owner)
pany A, Company 1, Company 2, Company 3, Company 4, Company 5, ultimate
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking (over the counter/Cash Deposit Machines)
banks
Red Flags Unable to corroborate SOF
Structuring of transaction
Unverifiable third parties and unknown purpose of transactions
Physical transport of cash across borders
Page 43 of 47

Best Practices e Identification and verification of persons depositing large amounts of
cash over the counter if these persons are employees of the account
holder.
° Counter Staff to enquire into the SOF if cash amounts exceed a certain
threshold (obtain customer employee’s declaration).
e Restriction on cash deposit machines to receive cash exceeding a certain
threshold.
e Identification and verification of persons who encash cash cheques of
large amount
e Obtain reasonable justification for the use of cash deposits rather than
remittance via the banking system.
° Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag multiple cash withdrawals and/or deposits within a short time-frame;
and
o Detect spikes in transaction activity.
° Obtain detailed information about the customers’ business activities to
assess whether transaction behaviour commensurate with business
activities.
e Obtain corroborative evidence for the underlying transactions and
corroborate customers’ declarations against publicly available
information.
MO 6: Usage of Similar Name Entities
MO6.3: Use of front companies with business names similar to established businesses
A retail company (“Retailer”), operating a jewellery chain in a Middle-Eastern country, opened a private banking
account in Singapore with the stated purpose of investing residual profits and proprietary funds. Annual reports
were furnished to the private bank to substantiate the operating revenue of Retailer. At the same time, the
perpetrators set up front companies in the names of well-known global fund managers and jewellery firms; and
the front companies had a common virtual office address. Funds were received by the Retailer’s account from
the front companies to mimic legitimate ‘business revenue’ and ‘investment’ funds flow. The private bank in
Singapore observed recurring payments out of the Retailer’s account in Singapore to its bank account in the
Middle-Eastern country.
The transactions were not consistent with the stated purpose of the account, which was to invest the company’s
residual profits and proprietary funds. It appeared that the perpetrators made use of the front companies to
layer funds through the Retailer’s private bank account in Singapore, thereby masking the original source of
these funds and raising questions on how the funds were amassed in the offshore location in the first place.
Shell companies
with names similar
. . Funds flow
to jewellery firms
N
Funds flow
Retailer > Retailer
4
Shell companies A A
with names similar “ Funds flow
to global fund
managers
Private Bank Singapore A/C Place of business (offshore) A/C
Page 44 of 47

Legal Entity Type Private operating company
Industry Jewellery
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), Middle-Eastern country (place of operations of retail
company), Offshore Company Location (overseas bank account)
Relevance Private Banking
Services provided by | Private Banking services (cash, investment, custody)
banks
Red Flags e Mailing address is not the operating location of the entity
° Mismatch between purpose of the transactions and the stated purpose of opening
the Private Bank account in Singapore
e Co-mingling of operational funds with investment funds
° SWIFT messages show third party funding from ostensibly un-related companies
but with the same virtual address
° Usage of entities bearing similar names to those of well-known global fund
manager and jewellery firms
Best Practices e Private banks should have in place ongoing client review frameworks
which are effective in detecting irregular changes in account behaviour
which are not in line with the state purpose of a Private Banking account.
e Data analytics should be employed to detect correlations in third party
payments into an account (e.g. use of same virtual address) that would
otherwise appear as credible single payments.
MO 7: Tax Motivated Activities
MO7.3: Cash backed loans involving jurisdictions with higher tax rates
A Singapore private bank is part of a global financial institution with a branch in a neighbouring country (Branch
X) that has high capital gains tax and rules around remittances for foreign investments. An existing client had a
PIC account in the Singapore private bank and an account in Branch X for his wholly owned operating company.
The operating company applied for a guarantee from Branch X, which was backed by its cash deposits with
Branch X, to support the PIC's borrowing from the Singapore private bank. All profits are booked within the
Singapore private bank account.
Legal Entity Type Personal Investment Company
Industry Not stated
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account, PIC)
Relevance Private Banking / Commercial Bank
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking, Loans
banks
Red Flags e Tax motivated transactions that need to be understood.
e Involvement of higher tax rate location
e Avoidance of remittances out where there is available cash
Best Practices ° In line with ABS Guidelines on AML/CFT, banks should consider cash-
backed loans involving entities in high tax rate or high tax risk
jurisdictions.
e In line with the examples of suspicious transactions furnished by MAS,
internally develop awareness if transactions that could be "suspected to
be in violation of another country's or jurisdictions foreign exchange
laws and regulations".
e Seek independent opinions from tax and/or legal experts.
MO7.4: Potential evasion of taxes
Company A was incorporated in an Offshore Company Location. It had a mailing address in a South-East Asian
country and was solely owned by a beneficial owner from Oceania. The declared business activity was “running
various programs and training courses for corporations.” The commercial operation was managed by the
beneficial owner. The spouse of the beneficial owner was a consultant. Both the beneficial owner and his spouse
held a joint-account in Singapore. The bank observed that the amounts transferred were much larger than what
would be expected for a company giving training courses, when compared to industry standards.
Page 45 of 47

The bank had concerns over potential tax evasion as Company A was transacting with numerous counterparties
outside their country of operation (South-East Asian country) using its offshore account (Singapore). It was
unclear whether the revenues deposited into Company A’s account in Singapore were duly reported for taxation
in their country of tax residency. In addition, there appeared to have no plausible purpose for Company A to
maintain an offshore account in Singapore.
Note: all the Legal Persons in the diagram below are companies.
Legal Person F
Legal Person A Account in Oceania
Account in North Asia Inconclusive line of business
2 telegraphic transfers: = -— — 2 telegraphic transfers: USD
USD 300K 30K
Legal Person B Legal Person G
Account in South-East Asia 2 _ Account in Europe 3
4 telegraphic transfers: USD Company A -—*!| = Inconclusive line of business
400K Incorporated: Offshore 1 telegraphic transfer: USD
Legal Person C Company Location 20K
Account in Europe 1 __}__» Business Operation: South- Legal Person H
3 telegraphic transfers: USD East Asia 1 Account in South-East Asia 1
70K UBO: Oceania ae Inconclusive line of business
4 telegraphic transfers: USD
Legal Person D 130K
Account in Europe 2 ——
1 telegraphic transfers: Legal Person |
USD 20K = Account in Europe 1
Inconclusive line of business
Legal Person E 2 telegraphic transfers: USD
Account in South-East Asia 3 [7 200K
1 telegraphic transfer: USD
40K
UBO UBO and spouse joint-account
Account in South-East Asia 1 in Singapore
1 telegraphic transfer: USD 1 outstanding loan: USD 250K
20K
Legal Entity Type Limited liability company
Industry Training Courses for Corporations
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (joint bank account), Oceanian country (bank account for Legal Person F
and ultimate beneficial owner), Offshore Company Location (place of incorporation
for Company A), South-East Asian country 1 (place of operation for Company A,
bank account for Legal Person H and ultimate beneficial owner), North-Asian country
(bank account for Legal Person A), South-East Asian country 2 (bank account for
Legal Person B), European country 1 (bank account for Legal Person C and I),
European country 2 (bank account for Legal Person D), South East Asian country 3,
(bank account for Legal Person E), European country 3 (bank account for Legal
Person G).
Relevance Commercial Banking
Services provided by | Current Accounts, Deposit taking
banks
Red Flags e Country of incorporation, operations and country of accounts diverge
° Declared business activity did not match transactional behaviour
e Lack of a plausible purpose for opening an offshore account in Singapore
Best Practices e Obtain information about the customer at on-boarding and on an ongoing
basis:
o Obtain detailed information about the profile and the business activities of
the customer including scope and size of customers’ business, key counterparties
such as suppliers and buyers and the countries of their suppliers and buyers and
expected transaction patterns and underlying reason for undertaking the
transactions, using a risk based approach.
o For the key suppliers and buyers, perform some level of due diligence to
understand if their purported trade of business is aligned to the customer’s
Page 46 of 47

business including understanding the corporate structure and ownership, where
sanctions related red flags are noted.
o For countries of the customer’s key suppliers and buyers (where practicably
feasible based on available info), discrepancies between the business nature of
the suppliers and buyers versus known information about the country’s economy
and trading information should be considered a red flag.
o During customer periodic review, obtain information if these key suppliers
and buyers have changed. If so, to understand if the customer’s business strategy
has changed.
e Inthe given scenario, establish the tax residence of the beneficial owner
of the customer.
e Corroborate the rationale for transactions with large amounts through
invoices, bills, or other evidence.
MO7.5: Transactions involving tax havens
A private banking customer (the Customer) residing overseas in a higher tax rate country appointed an external
asset manager (EAM) to operate his PIC account. It was observed that the EAM itself had transferred large
amounts of funds into the account. It transpired that the EAM had received the funds from the Customer from a
tax haven with instructions to place the funds into the Singapore private banking account. The Customer stressed
that he wanted his Singapore account to stay private and did not give any other reasons.
Legal Entity Type Personal Investment Company
Industry Not stated
Funding channel Remittance / Telegraphic Transfer
Jurisdiction Singapore (bank account), Offshore Company Location (customer)
Relevance Private Banking
Services provided by
banks
Current Accounts, Deposit taking
Red Flags e Tax motivated transactions without plausible rationale.
e Involvement of higher tax rate location and tax haven.
Best Practices ° In line with ABS Guidelines on AML/CFT, banks should devise their own
list of jurisdictions deemed to be “high risk" either from a high tax risk
or high tax rate perspective.
° Seek independent opinions from tax experts.
° Transaction monitoring systems should be calibrated to:
o Flag transaction patterns that capture operational transactions of private
banking customers (e.g third party and pass through payments).
Page 47 of 47

